What are the absolute indications for radical surgery on the paranasal sinuses?
rhinogenic intracranial complication
chronic maxillary sinusitis
acute hemisinusitis
polypous rhinosinusitis

Through which wall of the maxillary sinus is the maxillary sinus punctured?
medial
anterior
inferior
orbital

Through which nasal passage is a puncture of the maxillary sinus performed?
inferior
upper
common
middle

Into which nasal passages is the nasal cavity divided?
respirator, olfactor
posterior, anterior, middle, middle, common
anterior, middle, upper, common
inferior, medial, posterior, anterior

What are the nasal meatus in the nasal cavity?
inferior, middle, superior
lower, middle, upper
lower, upper
lateral, inferior, middle, superior

What opens into the upper nasal meatus?
posterior ethmoid sinus and the sphenoid sinus
frontal sinus, posterior commissures of the lattice labyrinth
frontal sinus, sphenoid sinus
lacrimal nasal canal

What opens into the middle nasal meatus?
frontal sinus, maxilar sinus, anterior ethmoid sinus
lacrimal nasal canal
frontal sinus, sphenoid sinus
posterior ethmoid sinus and the sphenoid sinus

What happens to air as it passes through the nasal cavity?
is moistened, warmed, purified.
is dried
decontaminated, warmed
warms

What makes the air warm in the nasal cavity?
slow air velocity in the nasal cavity, abundance of blood vessels, presence of cavernous tissue
slowing the speed of air movement in the nasal cavity
the presence of cylindrical flashing epithelium, slowing the rate of air movement in the nasal cavity
the abundance of blood vessels, the presence of cavernous tissue.

What are some methods of viewing the nasal cavity?
anterior rhinoscopy,  posterior rhinoscopy
direct rhinoscopy, indirect rhinoscopy
direct rhinoscopy, indirect rhinoscopy, anterior rhinoscopy, posterior rhinoscopy
direct rhinoscopy, indirect rhinoscopy, middle rhinoscopy

What anatomical structures border the nasal cavity?
anterior cranial fossa, orbit, oral cavity
posterior cranial fossa, orbit, oral cavity
posterior cranial fossa, anterior cranial fossa, orbit, oral cavity
orbit, oral cavity

What are the choanas limited by?
vomer, the inner plate of the wing process and the body of the basilar bone, the horizontal plate of the palatine bone.
palatine palatine arches
quadrangular cartilage, scaphoid
horizontal lamina of the palatine bone, condyle

What opens into the middle nasal passage?
the maxillary sinus, frontal sinus, anterior ethmoid sinus;
the lacrimal nasal canal;
maxillary sinus, frontal sinus, middle commissures of the ethmoid sinus;
maxillary sinus, frontal sinus, anterior commissures of the ethmoid sinus;

What are some reflex phenomena in the nasal cavity?
sneezing, lacrimation, rhinorrhea
sneezing, lacrimation
tinnitus, sneezing, rhinorrhea
rhinorrhea, sneezing

What factors can cause nasal septal deformity?
physiological, traumatic, compensatory
frequent inflammatory processes, congenital
congenital, acquired
birth trauma, uneven skull growth

How much moisture does the nasal cavity mucosa produce during the day?
about 500 ml
about 3000 ml
about 800 ml
about 200 ml

Forms of vasomotor rhinitis?
allergic, neurovegetative
catarrhal, hypertrophic, atrophic
acute, chronic
purulent, catarrhal, polyposis.

A complication of the allergic form of vasomotor rhinitis?
formation of polyps in the nasal cavity
intracranial
orbital
acute purulent sinusitis

What are causes of nasal furuncle?
infectious factor (staphylo-, streptococcus)
gastritis
trauma
stress, trauma

Symptoms of nasal furuncle?
sharp nasal pain, cone-shaped infiltrate, elevated ESR, leukocytosis, increased body temperature, enlarged and painful regional lymph nodes
headache, impaired nasal breathing, purulent discharge from the nasal cavity
disturbance of nasal breathing, nasal discharge, headache, periodic pain in the mustache
increased body temperature, nasal pain, nasal breathing disorders, nasal discharge

Types of acute rhinitis?
acute catarrhal rhinitis, acute catarrhal rhinopharyngitis, acute traumatic rhinitis
acute catarrhal rhinitis, acute catarrhal rhinopharyngitis.
acute rhinitis stages 1, 2, 3
acute runny nose, allergic rhinitis, neurovegetative rhinitis

What plays a role in the etiology of acute catarrhal rhinitis?
reduction of local and general reactivity of the organism, activation of microflora at the nasal cavity, general and local hypothermia
occupational factors, infectious diseases
infectious diseases, microtraumas
bacteria, viruses

Treatment of acute rhinitis in stage 3?
nasal vasoconstrictor drops, UVO, UHF, alkaline oil inhalations, antibiotic
antibiotic therapy, antiseptic, vasoconstrictive nasal drops
abortive method
antibiotics, sulfonamides, vasoconstrictive nasal drops

What are forms of chronic rhinitis?
catarrhal, hypertrophic, atrophic. sicca, caseosis
catarrhal, neurovegetative
vasomotor, catarrhal, neurovegetative
mural, central, posterior

What are complaints of patients with chronic catarrhal rhinitis?
periodic difficulty in nasal breathing, nasal discharge, headache
difficult nasal breathing, cough, headache
nasal discharge, sneezing, difficulty in nasal breathing.
rhinorrhea, general weakness, drowsiness

What treatment methods are used for chronic hypertrophic rhinitis?
chemocaustic, galvanocaustic, cryotherapy, conchotomy
conservative, surgical
antibiotics, sulfonamides, vasoconstrictive nasal drops
abortive, antibiotic therapy, vasoconstrictive nasal drops

What factors contribute to the occurrence of ozena?
endocrine, lack of iron in the body, low nutrition and immune systems
trauma, nasal manipulation
chronic rhinitis
inappropriate treatment of acute rhinitis

What are main signs of ozena?
crusts in the nose, foul odour, absence or decreased fasciculation
difficult nasal breathing, headache, nasal discharge
difficult nasal breathing, nasal pain, headache
general weakness, difficult nasal breathing

What surgical interventions are performed for nasal septal deviation?
submucosal resection of the nasal septum
conchotomy
electrocaustics of the lower nasal bones
polypoethmoidotomy

What symptoms are seen in a patient with nasal diphtheria on anterior rhinoscopy?
fibrinous films on the nasal mucosa
blood clots in the nasal passages
cushion-shaped hyperaemia and bulging of the nasal septum
connections between the nasal septum and the inferior nasal concha

Which symptoms are characteristic of nasal cavity tuberculosis on anterior rhinoscopy?
infiltrate or ulcer of the cartilaginous part of the nasal septum surrounded by flaccid granulations
round or oval erosion of red color with smooth surface and dense base
pillow-shaped protrusion of the nasal septum of red color
blood clots in the nasal passages

What surgery is performed for chronic atrophic rhinitis?
transplantation of tissue grafts under the mucous membrane of the nasal septum
adenotomy
maxillomotomy
conchotomy

What are the symptoms characteristic of chronic allergic rhinosinusitis?
eosinophilia of nasal secretions
atrophy of the nasal mucosa
periodic nosebleeds
fever

Through which cerebral venous sinuses is infection generalized from the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses?
cavernous sinus
sigmoid sinus
lumbar sinus
upper and lower stony sinuses

In which cranial fossa do rhinogenic intracranial complications occur more often?
anterior
posterior
middle
posterior and anterior

What are the most frequently observed symptoms of a nasal furuncle?
local pain, fever, headache, reddening and swelling of the skin of the external nose, enlargement and soreness of the submandibular lymph nodes
local pain, fever, reddening and swelling of the skin of the external nose
local pain, reddening and swelling of the skin of the external nose, nasal congestion, enlargement and soreness of the submandibular lymph nodes
local pain, fever, headache, reddening of the skin of the external nose

What are the causes and factors distinctive for acute rhinitis?
infection, mechanical and chemical irritants (occupational hazards), allergies, local and general hypothermia
nasal injury, hypothermia
mechanical and chemical irritants local and general hypothermia
infection, allergy, local and general hypothermia;

What rhinoscopic symptoms occur in acute rhinitis?
narrowing of the nasal passages, hyperemia and swelling of the mucous membrane of the nasal cavity
narrowing of the nasal passages;
narrowing of the nasal passages, loss of charm
narrowing of the nasal passages, hyperemia of the nasal mucosa;

What drugs have a vasoconstrictive effect?
naphthysine, galazolin, sanorine, rhinofluimucil, ephedrine, adrenaline
naphthysine, sanorine, ephedrine, adrenaline
naphthysine, fugentin, galazolin, sanorine, adrenaline
naphthysine, galazolin

What symptoms accurately describe chronic atrophic rhinitis?
wide nasal passages during anterior rhinoscopy, accumulation of crusts in the nasal cavity, dryness in the nose and pharynx, decreased sense of smell
accumulation of crusts in the nasal cavity;
wide nasal passages during anterior rhinoscopy, dry nose
wide nasal passages during anterior rhinoscopy;

What are the main complaints of patients with chronic vasomotor rhinosinusitis?
sneezing, rhinorrhea, seizure period, difficulty in nasal breathing in a horizontal position
sneezing, attack period;
sneezing, rhinorrhea, attack period;
dryness in the nose and pharynx with the formation of crusts

What are the typical symptoms of cavernous sinus thrombosis?
fever and pouring sweat, exophthalmos, chemosis, pale skin with an earthy tinge
fever and torrential sweat, hectic fever, chemosis
fever and torrential sweat, pale skin with an earthy tinge
bradycardia, fever and torrential sweat;

What are the most common ways of infection into the paranasal sinuses?
rhinogenic, hematogenic, odontogenic, traumatic
hematogenic, traumatic
lymphogenic
rhinogenic, hematogenic, odontogenic

What symptoms of hypertension can occur in rhinogenic abscesses of the brain?
headache, nausea and vomiting, bradycardia, congestive optic disc
spontaneous nystagmus
adiadochokinesis
headache, nausea and vomiting, bradycardia

What are the rhinogenic intracranial complications?
arachnoiditis, serous and purulent meningitis, thrombosis of the sinuses of the dura mater, epi-, subdural abscesses, abscesses of the brain.
phlegmon of the orbit, arachnoiditis, serous and purulent meningitis of the meninges;
arachnoiditis, purulent meningitis, rhinogenic sepsis;
serous and purulent meningitis;

What are the clinical signs characteristic of chronic hypertrophic rhinitis?
constant difficulty in nasal breathing, nasal discharge, enlargement of nasal concha.
accumulation of crusts in the nose, constant difficulty in nasal breathing;
periodic difficulty in nasal breathing;
periodic difficulty of nasal breathing, nasal congestion;

What symptoms symbolize chronic vasomotor rhinitis during anterior rhinoscopy?
swelling of the nasal concha, cyanotic mucosa, warts spots, narrowing of the nasal passages.
swelling of the nasal concha, cyanotic mucosa;
the presence of unpleasant-smelling crusts in the nose;
swelling of the nasal concha;

What are the changes in the cerebrospinal fluid characteristic of rhinogenic purulent meningitis?
increased pressure of the cerebrospinal fluid, turbidity of the cerebrospinal fluid, an increase in the number of leukocytes, positive Pandy‘s and Nonne-Apelt‘s reactions
lymphocytic shift in the cerebrospinal fluid
increased pressure of the cerebrospinal fluid, positive Pandy‘s and Bordet-Gengou reactions
increased pressure of the cerebrospinal fluid, positive Bordet-Gengou and Vidal‘s reactions

What is the most rational treatment for nasal polyps?
polypotomy, phonophoresis with corticosteroid ointments;
vasoconstrictors, antihistamines;
polypotomy;
polypotomy, electrophoresis with corticosteroid ointments;

Which eye is viewed through the opening in the frontal reflector?
left
right
both
alternately

In which hand is the nasal mirror held during anterior rhinoscopy?
left
alternately
right
there is no obstruction

On which side of the doctor is the light source placed when examining an otorhinolaryngological patient?
on the left
on the right side
in front of the doctor
behind the doctor

Which instrument is used to perform an anterior rhinoscopy?
nasal speculum
ear funnel
tongue depressor
nasopharyngeal mirror

What is the name of the technique for examining the nose?
rhinoscopy
laryngoscopy
otoscopy
hypopharyngoscopy

What is the bony skeleton of the external nose is formed by?
the nasal bones, the frontal processes of the maxilla;
the perpendicular and horizontal laminae of the lattice bone;
the palatine bone and the scutellum;
nasal bones;

Which cartilages form the external nose?
lateral, wing-shaped, supplementary
quadrangular, wing-shaped.
lateral, wing-shaped, quadrangular, accessory.
quadrangular, wing-shaped

What walls does each half of the nose cavity have?
medial, external, superior, inferior;
anterior, medial, external, superior, inferior;
posterior, medial, external, superior, inferior;
anterior, medial, upper, lower;

Where will venous blood drain out of the nose?
into the cavernous sinus, into the eye vein, into the anterior facial vein
into the ocular vein, anterior facial vein
into the cavernous sinus
into the sigmoid sinus

What are the major anatomical formations of the external nose?
root, dorsum, wing.
root, dorsum, slopes, tip, wings
dorsum, wing
dorsum, slopes, tip, wingtip

What arteries supply blood to the nose and its sinuses?
internal carotid, external carotid.
vertebral, external carotid
vertebral, external carotid, internal carotid.
external carotid

Which nerves provide sensory innervation of the external nose and nasal cavity?
first branch of the trigeminal, second branch of the trigeminal.
first branch of trigeminal
second branch of the trigeminal
vagus

What functions does the nose perform?
respiratory, olfactory, protective, vocal resonance, air conditioning, immune defense
respiratory, olfactory, protective, vocal resonance, excretory.
respiratory, olfactory, excretory, vocal resonance.
vocal, respiratory, olfactory, defence, vocal resonance.

Which nerve makes a canal in the orbital wall of the maxillary sinus?
lower orbital;
olfactory;
trigeminal;
mandibular;

Which of the walls of the maxillary sinus is the thinnest?
orbital;
anterior;
medial;
inferior;

Which wall of the frontal sinus is the thickest?
anterior
inferior
posterior
medial

Where does the outflow tract of the frontal sinus open?
into the middle nasal passage
into the lower nasal passage
into the upper nasal passage
into the nasopharynx

What is the maxillary sinus bordered by?
fossa, nasal cavity, oral cavity, orbit.
orbit, nasal cavity, oral cavity, orbit.
the wing fossa, middle cranial fossa, nasal cavity, oral cavity, orbit.
nasal cavity, oral cavity, orbit

How many paranasal sinuses are typically developed in humans?
eight
five
six
two

The canal of which nerve passes into the orbital wall of the maxillary sinus?
lower orbital
olfactory
orbital
facial

Indicate the thinnest wall of the maxillary sinus?
orbital
posterior
inferior
medial

By what age is the development of the frontal sinus usually complete?
before 12-14 years of life
before 6-8 years of life
by the first year of life
by the time of birth

Indicate the thickest wall of the frontal sinus?
anterior
lateral
medial
inferior

The location of the opening of the frontal sinus?
into the middle nasal passage
into the nasopharynx
into the upper nasal passage
into the common nasal passage

What is the technique for examining the nasal portion of the nasopharynx called?
posterior rhinoscopy
laryngoscopy
pharyngoscopy
otoscopy

What is the name of the technique for examining the larynx?
laryngoscopy
pharyngoscopy
otoscopy
oropharyngoscopy

The focal distance for examination with a frontal reflector is?
30 cm
20 cm
15 cm
40 cm

Why is the mirror heated during posterior rhinoscopy?
to prevent fogging
to prevent a gag reflex
to prevent coughing
for patient comfort

How can the gag reflex be suppressed to improve nasopharyngeal examination?
lubricate the posterior wall of the oropharynx and the root of the tongue with a 10% lidocaine solution
lubricate the posterior wall of the oropharynx and root of the tongue with 2% lidocaine solution
lubricate the nasal cavity with 10% lidocaine solution
infiltration anaesthesia of the posterior pharyngeal wall with 10% lidocaine solution

Which nasal meatus can be seen during anterior rhinoscopy?
lower, middle
lower, middle, upper.
middle, upper
lower

Which examination requires mirrors larger than 1 cm in diameter?
laryngoscopy
middle rhinoscopy
posterior rhinoscopy
oropharyngoscopy

Why is the patient asked to make an ‘i’ sound during laryngoscopy?
to assess the mobility of the vocal folds
to deflect the soft palate
to assess the clarity of the voice
to dilate the laryngeal lumen

Which technique is used to examine the larynx?
direct and indirect laryngoscopy
direct laryngoscopy
hypopharyngoscopy
palpation of the larynx

What should be done to the laryngeal speculum immediately before examination?
heat
sterilise
wipe with cotton wool
moisten with water

What is needed to perform an indirect laryngoscopy?
laryngeal mirror, gauze tissue
laryngeal mirror, tongue depressor
tongue depressor
bronchoscope

What instruments are needed to perform an epipharyngoscopy?
nasopharyngeal mirror, tongue depressor
nasal speculum
ear funnel
laryngeal mirror, gauze napkin

Which examination requires mirrors up to 1 cm in diameter?
posterior rhinoscopy
middle rhinoscopy
anterior rhinoscopy
oropharyngoscopy

When which muscles contract, the eustachian tube begins to function?
tensor veli palatini and levator veli palatini muscles.
the stapedius muscle
tensor tympani muscle
auricular muscle

Which tonsils can be seen on posterior rhinoscopy?
nasopharyngeal and tubal
palatine
lingual, palatine
nasopharyngeal only

What is the name of the technique for examining the pharynx?
pharyngoscopy
otoscopy
stomatoscopy
rhinoscopy

An oropharyngoscopy is an examination of?
oropharynx
ears
nasopharynx
larynopharynx

What is the technique of examining the lower pharynx called?
hypopharyngoscopy
oropharyngoscopy
posterior rhinoscopy
epipharyngoscopy

What is needed to perform an oropharyngoscopy?
tongue depressor
nasopharyngeal mirror, tongue depressor
ear funnel
nasal speculum

During oropharyngoscopy, why is the patient asked to utter the ‘a’ sound?
to assess the mobility of the soft palate.
to assess the degree of constriction of the pharynx
to facilitate examination of the root of the tongue
to assess the mobility of the tongue

Functions of the pharynx?
swallowing, Vocal resonance, respiratory, protective
Vocal resonance, respiratory, protective
Vocal resonance, respiratory, protective, vocal
pharyngeal, Vocal resonance, respiratory

At what vertebrae level is the nasopharynx placed?
C1 -C2
C2 -C4
C2 -C3
C1 -C4

What are the muscles of the soft palate?
levator veli palatini, tensor veli palatini
sternocleidomastoid, levator veli palatini
maxillary hyoid, tensor veli palatini
sternocleidomastoid, mylohyoid

What opens into the lower nasal passage?
lacrimal nasal canal;
the sphenoid sinus;
maxillary sinus;
frontal sinus;

Where are the most developed and superficially located venous plexuses in the nasal cavity?
in the anterior inferior portion of the nasal septum;
at the border of the cartilaginous and bony parts of the nasal septum;
in the area of the middle nasal shell;
in the posterior portions of the vomer;

When palpating the nasopharynx in children, what should be done to prevent biting your own finger?
press the index finger of the left hand into the cheek between the teeth
give the tongue with a tongue depressor;
pinch the subject's nostrils with the thumb and forefinger of the left hand;
give the child a sedative;

The walls of the cochlear passage?
basilar membrane, Reissner‘s membrane, vascular stria
angular membrane, upper membrane, lower membrane
cortical, basilar membrane, tectorial membrane
basilar membrane, Reissner‘s membrane, vascular stria, promontorium

Windows of the labyrinth are?
round, oval
anterior, posterior
bony labyrinth window, membranous labyrinth window
spherical, elliptical.

What fluids are present in the labyrinth?
endolymph, perilymph
endolymph, haemolymph
liquor
liquor, endolymph.

Where is the organ of Corti placed?
in the membranous cochlea
in the bony cochlea
in the middle ear
in the mastoid process

Where is the receptor of the auditory analyser located?
in the cochlea
in the semicircular canals
in the vestibule
in the tympanic cavity

The names of the supporting cells of the organ of Corti are?
Hensen's, Deiters', Claudius.
hairy, supporting
Kiesselbach's, Hensen's, Claudius.
Vojacek, Kiesselbach's, Petrus.

What formations conduct vibrations in the ear?
tympanic membrane, auditory ossicles, perilymph.
endolymph, perilymph
ciliated epithelium, auditory ossicles, perilymph.
tympanic membrane, auditory tube, auditory ossicles

What types of audiometry exist?
tonal, speech
direct, indirect
whispered, spoken
tonal, speech, direct, non-direct

What would be Gelle's test with otosclerosis?
negative
positive
shortened
prolonged

In what units are the results of a whispered speech hearing test recorded?
in meters
in centimeters
in decimeters
in bels

Where do the air and bone conduction curves on a tone audiogram pass normally?
in the vicinity of the zero line
at 30 dB
at 15 dB
at 20 dB

Methods of hearing research?
speech, chamber tone and audiometric
threshold, suprathreshold
whispered and spoken speech
analogue, digital

What is necessary for the Politzer‘s test?
ear balloon, otoscope
C512 tuning fork
ear funnel, forehead reflector
Siegel set

When is it not possible to perform a Toynbee‘s experiment?
with disease of the mucous membrane of eustachian tube
when sound perception is affected
when the vestibular analyzer is affected
when blood pressure is high

What is the function of the vestibular apparatus?
regulates muscle tone, maintains a given body position, supplies the cortex with information about the position, movement of the body in space
maintains a given position of the body, supplies the cerebral cortex with information about the position and movement of the body in space
helps maintain the balance of the body
provides movement of the body with angular acceleration

What is labyrinthitis?
inflammatory process of the inner ear
exacerbation of chronic otitis media
pathology of the semicircular canals
inflammation of the auricle

Which semicircular canal is most commonly affected in chronic suppurative otitis media?
lateral
vertical
all three equally often
the semicircular canals are not affected

What is petrositis?
it is a process in which inflammation spreads to the apex of the pyramid of the temporal bone
it is an inflammation of the vasculature of the eye
it is an inflammation of the zygomatic bone
it is an inflammation of the mastoid process

What is a marginal perforation of the tympanic membrane?
perforation along the edge of the tympanic membrane when its remains are not visible all along the tympanic annulus
complete absence of the tympanic membrane
perforation in the newly formed tympanic membrane
perforation in the pars flaccida of the tympanic membrane

What is a subdural abscess?
an abscess between the dura mater and arachnoid mater of the brain
an abscess between the temporal bone and the dura mater
an abscess in the brain matter
inflammation of the cavernous sinus of the brain with formation of an infected thrombus

Inflammation of which membrane occurs in purulent meningitis?
all the membranes of the brain
soft
spider web
pleural

Which disease is most characterized by vertigo?
Meniere's disease, labyrinthitis
otosclerosis
chronic sensorineural hearing loss
labyrinthitis

What type of hearing loss is followed in patients with the cochlear form of otosclerosis?
air leading
conductive (damage to sound conduction)
perceptual (damage to sound perception)
mixed

Audiogram in patients with Meniere's disease is following:
significant air-bone interval with increasing bone conduction hearing thresholds
absence of an air-bone interval
air bone interval, Carhart niche on the bone conduction hearing threshold curve
increased air conduction

Why does hearing loss occur in patients with otosclerosis?
as a result of ankylosis of the footplate of stapes
as a result of sclerosis of the middle ear vessels
as a result of fluid in the middle ear
as a result of dystrophy of the hair cells of the helix

Which of the following diseases occurs in diabetes mellitus?
sensorineural hearing loss
otosclerosis
Meniere's disease
labyrinthitis

Stapedoplasty is:
inserting the head of the stapes into the cochlear window
replacing the stapes with a prosthesis made of a biologically inert material
placement of a short tube in the tympanic membrane
creation of a hole in the base of the stapes

What is the pharyngeal nerve plexus formed by?
glossopharyngeal, vagus, sympathetic, trigeminal
laryngeal, vagus.
sympathetic, trigeminal
vagus, sympathetic, trigeminal.

Clinical forms of chronic tonsillitis
compensated, decompensated
catarrhal, decompensated
decompensated
terminal, decompensated

Lacunar tonsillitis is differentiated from
diphtheria
acute pharyngitis
does not require differentiation
bacillary tonsillitis

Lacunar tonsillitis is most often caused by
β – hemolytic streptococci group A
pneumococci
adenoviruses
spirochete buccal and fusiform rod

The most reliable objective signs of chronic tonsillitis
liquid pus in the lacunae of the tonsils and cicatricial changes in the tonsils and surrounding tissues
cicatricial changes in the tonsils and surrounding tissues
fusion of the palatine tonsils with the palatine arches
increased size of tonsils

Objective signs of chronic tonsillitis
presence of liquid pus in the lacunae of the palatine tonsils, enlargement of regional lymph nodes, adhesion of the tonsils to the anterior palatine arches
increased size of the palatine tonsils, fusion of the tonsils with the anterior palatine arches
enlargement of regional lymph nodes, fusion of tonsils with anterior palatine arches
fusion of the tonsils with the anterior palatine arches

Complications of tonsillectomy may include:
bleeding
acute respiratory failure
acute laryngeal stenosis
secondary angina

Complications of peritonsillar abscess
parapharyngeal abscess, sepsis, mediastinitis
otitis media, mediastinitis
sepsis, mediastinitis
mediastinitis

Features of the clinical picture of lacunar tonsillitis
sudden onset of the disease and absence of acute inflammatory phenomena in the nose
gradual onset and absence of acute inflammatory phenomena in the nose
presence of acute inflammatory phenomena in the nose
absence of acute inflammatory phenomena in the nose

According to localization, peritonsillar abscesses are divided into:
posterosuperior anterosuperior lateral
anterosuperior lateral
lateral
medial lateral

Contraindications to tonsillectomy
blood diseases
cholecystitis
diabetes
hypertension

The size of the tonsils in a patient with chronic tonsillitis
has no clinical value
indicates decompensation of the process
indicates decompensation of the process only in children
indicates decompensation of the process only in adults

Tonsillogenic diseases are
diseases of internal organs that are associated with chronic tonsillitis etiopathogenetically
diseases of internal organs that cause chronic tonsillitis
ENT diseases that cause chronic tonsillitis
chronic tonsillitis, which is transmitted genetically

Follicular tonsillitis is differentiated from
does not require differentiation
diphtheria
acute pharyngitis
bacillary sore throat

Chronic tonsillitis is differentiated from
chronic pharyngitis and hypertrophy of the palatine tonsils
catarrhal angina and hypertrophy of the palatine tonsils
hypertrophy of the palatine tonsils
pharyngomycosis

Secondary syphilis of the pharynx (symptoms)
“ tonsillitis” – tonsils and arches are affected; temperature is normal; there is no pain; there may be papules;
“ tonsillitis” – tonsils and arches are affected; temperature is normal;
signs of angina; subfebrile temperature; no pain; may be papules;
“ tonsillitis” – tonsils and arches are affected; temperature is normal; pain when swallowing;

Who gets adenoids more often (boys or girls)?
equally often;
boys;
girls;
up to 5 years old – boys, and after 5 years old – girls;

At the 1st degree of hypertrophy of the pharyngeal tonsil, adenoid tissue
covers the upper third of the coulter
covers the entire coulter
covers two thirds of the coulter
hangs into the oropharynx

In grade 2 hypertrophy of the pharyngeal tonsil, adenoid tissue
covers two thirds of the coulter
covers the entire coulter
covers the upper third of the coulter
hangs into the oropharynx

In grade 3 hypertrophy of the pharyngeal tonsil, adenoid tissue
covers the entire coulter
covers the upper third of the coulter
covers two thirds of the coulter
hangs into the oropharynx

Hearing loss in adenoids is caused by
mechanical closure of the orifices of the Eustachian tubes
intoxication of receptor and ganglionic formations of the auditory analyzer
impaired sound conduction in the external auditory canal
congestion in the cranial cavity

The pair pharyngeal lymphadenoid ring includes
2 palatine tonsils and 2 tubal tonsils 1 adenoid and 1 lingual
2 tubal tonsils
2 laryngeal tonsils and 2 tubal tonsils
2 sublingual tonsils

To reduce the volume and decrease secretion in chronic catarrhal and hypertrophic pharyngitis, prescribe
solutions of collargol, protargol 1-2%, lubrication of the mucous membrane of the pharynx with iodoglycerin;
lubrication of the mucous membrane with a 2-3% solution of silver nitrate;
gargling with antiseptic solutions;
lubrication of the mucous membrane with a 2-3% solution of silver nitrate, gargling with antiseptic solutions;

To remove foreign bodies from the pharynx, use
tweezers and clamp
clamp
probe and clamp
spatula and clamp

