What is the main structure in an infectious diseases hospital?
Emergency room, Department of Infectious Diseases, laboratory, intensive care unit
Polyclinic, surgical department, laboratory
Molecular Genetics Laboratory, Therapeutic Department
Expert Department, Intensive care unit

What rules should be followed when admitting patients to an infectious diseases hospital?
Medical history collection, examination, paperwork, laboratory tests
Paperwork only
Examination of the patient and appointment of treatment
Sending a patient for inpatient treatment without analysis

What information should be indicated in the documents when a patient is admitted to an infectious diseases hospital?
Information about anamnesis morbi, anamnesis vitae, diagnosis, medical history
Personal information about the patient and contact details
Only the symptoms of the disease
An indication of the examinations performed in another institution

What are the rules for processing medical documents when a patient is admitted to an infectious diseases hospital?
Filling in all fields of the questionnaire, recording admission data, date of hospitalization, diagnosis
Just registering the data on the patient's card
Indication of medical history and appointment
All documents are left for storage without special marks

Which of the following diseases is caused by the hepatitis A virus?
Viral hepatitis A
Viral hepatitis B
Viral hepatitis C
Viral hepatitis D

What is the transmission route of hepatitis A virus?
Oral-fecal route
Drip path
Airborne pathway
Transmission via inhalers

Which population group is more susceptible to hepatitis E virus infection?
People who consume polluted water
Younger children
Catering workers
People with chronic liver diseases

What is the main factor of pathogenesis in viral hepatitis A?
The virus damages liver cells, causing inflammation
Kidney malfunction
Hemolysis of red blood cells
Infection in the brain

What complications can develop with viral hepatitis A?
Acute liver failure
Burns and skin reactions
Violation of the cardiovascular system
Inflammation of the respiratory tract

What treatment method is used for viral hepatitis A?
Symptomatic therapy, antiviral drugs are not used
Chemotherapy
Antibiotics
Broad-spectrum antiviral drugs

How can hepatitis A virus infection be prevented?
Vaccination and compliance with sanitary standards
The use of antibacterial drugs
Use of antiseptics
Wearing masks and gloves

What are the symptoms of viral hepatitis E?
Jaundice, pain in the right hypochondrium, fatigue
Headache and dizziness
Fever and cough
Fever and swelling

Which of the viruses causes acute inflammation of the liver with possible fulminant forms of the disease?
Hepatitis B virus
Hepatitis C virus
Hepatitis D virus
Hepatitis A virus

Which characteristic is correct for the epidemiology of hepatitis A virus?
The disease is widespread in regions with a low sanitary level
Common among people who are in frequent contact with the sick
Hepatitis A virus does not spread in children's groups
This disease is more common among older people

What is the most informative diagnostic method for viral hepatitis A?
Determination of IgM class antibodies
Liver biopsy
MRI of the liver
PCR for all types of viruses

Which of the characteristics applies to the hepatitis B virus?
It is transmitted through blood and sexual contact
It can only be prevented with antiseptics
It causes the chronic form of hepatitis
The virus can be transmitted through the air

Which of the drugs is used to prevent viral hepatitis A?
Vaccination
Antibiotics
Antiviral drugs
Anti-flu drugs

What changes in the liver occur with hepatitis E?
Hepatomegaly, fatty degeneration, inflammation
Reduction of liver size
Cell hypertrophy
Increased levels of heart enzymes

What tests are most often required to diagnose viral hepatitis A?
Determination of the level of bilirubin, antibodies against HAV
General blood test
Ultrasound of the liver
MRI of the liver

Which of the factors contributes to the development of complications in viral hepatitis E?
Impaired renal function
Lack of vitamins
Low level of immunity
Problems with the respiratory system

What vaccines can prevent the development of hepatitis A and E?
Hepatitis A vaccine and hepatitis E vaccine
Hepatitis B vaccine
Flu vaccine
Meningitis vaccine

What kind of diagnosis is used for suspected hepatitis E?
Determination of IgM antibodies to virus E
PCR blood test
Ultrasound of the liver
Urinalysis

What additional precautions should be taken when a patient with viral hepatitis A is hospitalized?
Isolation of the patient and compliance with sanitary standards
Carrying out diagnostic procedures
Appointment of diet therapy
Intensive surveillance without isolation

What complications can be associated with chronic hepatitis B?
Cirrhosis of the liver and liver cancer
Burns and skin rashes
Lymphadenopathy
Chronic inflammatory diseases of organs

What is the mechanism of transmission of hepatitis B virus?
Transmission through blood and sexual contact
Airborne
Oral-fecal
Transmission through food

Which diagnostic methods are the most effective for diagnosing viral hepatitis A?
Analysis for IgM antigen of virus A
Liver biopsy
MRI SCAN
Ultrasound examination

What drug is used to treat viral hepatitis B?
Lamivudine or interferons
Amoxicillin
Acyclovir
Fluconazole

What are the most common symptoms of viral hepatitis A?
Fever, jaundice, weakness
Headache, shortness of breath, cough
High blood pressure
Disturbance of consciousness

How to prevent the spread of viral hepatitis A in an infectious hospital?
Compliance with sanitary and epidemiological standards, isolation of the patient
Prescribing antibiotics
Limiting physical activity
Use of antiviral drugs

What preventive measures are needed to prevent the spread of hepatitis E?
Compliance with water supply and sanitation standards
Use of personal hygiene products
Increased vaccination against other infections
Limited human contact

What virus causes hepatitis E?
Hepatitis E virus
Hepatitis A virus
Hepatitis B virus
Hepatitis C virus

Which of the following symptoms is the most common in viral hepatitis E?
Yellow coloration of the skin and sclera
Headache
Soreness in the chest
Enlargement of lymph nodes

Which of the following characteristics is true for hepatitis A virus?
Virus is transmitted through contaminated food and water
Transmitted through blood
It is only treated with antibacterial drugs
Does not cause chronic forms of the disease

What role does diet therapy play in the treatment of viral hepatitis A?
Reducing the load on the liver
Improvement of kidney function
Acceleration of recovery of mucous membranes
Antiviral therapy

What medications are used to treat hepatitis E?
There is no specific treatment, the treatment is symptomatic
Antiviral drugs (antihepatitis)
Antiparasitic drugs
Immunostimulants

Which of the following characteristics is most common for hepatitis B (HBV)?
It is a DNA virus that can cause a chronic infection.
It is an RNA virus that causes an acute infection.
It is a DNA virus, but it does not cause a chronic infection.
It is an RNA virus that causes acute and chronic infections.

Which of the following factors is the main mode of transmission of the hepatitis B virus?
Transfusion of infected blood.
Airborne transmission path.
Transmission via waterways.
Transmission through saliva.

Which of the following complications can develop with chronic hepatitis B virus infection?
Cirrhosis of the liver and liver cancer.
Kidney failure.
Diabetes.
Thrombocytopenia.

Which of the following diagnostic methods is used to detect the hepatitis B virus?
Determination of HBsAg in blood.
Determination of antibodies to hepatitis A virus.
PCR for hepatitis C virus.
Analysis for the presence of antibodies to HCV.

What role does the hepatitis D virus play in the pathogenesis of infection?
The hepatitis D virus can only infect those who are already infected with the hepatitis B virus.
Hepatitis D virus can only infect people with hepatitis C virus.
The hepatitis D virus can cause infections in people who are not infected with other viruses.
The hepatitis D virus does not cause clinical manifestations.

Which of the following treatment options is indicated for patients with chronic hepatitis B?
Use of antiviral drugs such as entecavir.
The use of antibiotics to fight infection.
Surgical treatment with liver transplantation.
Prescribing steroid medications.

Which of the following diseases can a person with chronic hepatitis C develop?
Cirrhosis of the liver and liver cancer.
Thrombocytopenia.
Pulmonary insufficiency.
Psoriasis.

Which of the following methods is the most effective for the prevention of hepatitis B?
Vaccination against hepatitis B virus.
Administration of antibiotics for preventive purposes.
The use of antiviral drugs in the early stages of infection.
Avoiding contact with infected people.

What is characteristic of the hepatitis C virus?
It is an RNA virus that often leads to chronic hepatitis.
This is a DNA virus that causes an acute infection.
It is an RNA virus that causes acute infectious diseases.
This is a DNA virus that leads to fulminant hepatitis.

Which of the following methods is the main one in the diagnosis of hepatitis C virus?
PCR for determination of hepatitis C virus RNA.
Definition of HBsAg.
PCR for hepatitis B virus.
Determination of antibodies to hepatitis E.

Which of the following characteristics of hepatitis D is correct?
It requires hepatitis B virus infection to replicate.
It can cause infection on its own, without the hepatitis B virus.
It causes chronic infections, but not fulminant hepatitis.
It does not cause complications in people with a normal immune system.

Which of the following factors increases the risk of chronic hepatitis B?
Infection in infancy.
Infection in old age.
Lack of vaccination.
Low levels of antibodies after vaccination.

Which of the following is the main method of hepatitis C prevention?
Avoiding contact with the blood of infected people.
Vaccination.
The use of antibiotics.
Insect protection.

What is characteristic of the clinical picture of acute hepatitis B?
Jaundice, increased bilirubin levels in the blood.
Absence of symptoms.
Severe diarrhea.
Chills and fever without jaundice.

Which of the following ways of hepatitis C virus transmission is most common?
Drug injections using shared needles.
The airborne pathway.
Transmission through saliva.
Through insect bites.

Which of the following is a complication of chronic hepatitis C?
Cirrhosis of the liver and liver cancer.
Pneumonia.
Acute renal failure.
Migraine.

What is the main task in the treatment of hepatitis C virus?
Reduction of viral load and prevention of cirrhosis.
Maintaining a high level of antibodies.
The infection does not require treatment.
Symptomatic treatment.

Which of the following drugs is the most commonly used for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C?
Sofosbuvir.
Acyclovir.
Penicillin.
Metronidazole.

What kind of research is used to confirm the diagnosis of chronic hepatitis C?
PCR for detection of hepatitis C virus RNA.
Definition of HBsAg.
Hepatitis E antibody test.
X-ray examination.

Which of the factors contributes to the development of hepatitis B virus into a chronic form?
Constant viral presence in the body.
Transmission through mother's milk.
Increased antigen levels.
Discontinuation of vaccination.

Which form of hepatitis can cause co-infection with the hepatitis B virus?
Hepatitis D virus.
Hepatitis E virus.
Hepatitis A virus.
Hepatitis C virus.

Which of the following statements is true about the hepatitis B vaccine?
Vaccination prevents hepatitis B virus infection.
Vaccination is applied only after infection.
Vaccination is not effective for people over 50 years of age.
Vaccination provides protection against all types of hepatitis.

Which of the following methods is used to treat hepatitis B in the acute phase?
Usually treated symptomatically, treatment with antiviral drugs is not always necessary.
Administration of broad-spectrum antibiotics.
Liver transplant immediately.
Chemotherapy.

Which of the drugs is used to treat chronic hepatitis B?
Entecavir.
Metronidazole.
Acyclovir.
Ceftriaxone.

What are the signs of chronic hepatitis B virus infection?
Persistent infection, increased levels of transaminases, and possible development of cirrhosis.
The infection resolves after a few weeks without complications.
Only acute jaundice.
All cases end in recovery.

What are the main measures for the prevention of hepatitis C?
Decrease in the use of common needles among drug addicts.
Vaccination.
The use of disposable medical instruments.
General use of sterile medical instruments.

What is the main way to prevent transmission of hepatitis B virus in medical institutions?
Compliance with infection control standards and the use of sterile instruments.
The use of antibiotics.
Sterilization of patients before operations.
Refusal of surgical interventions.

What signs are clinically determined in patients with acute hepatitis C?
Mild or moderate jaundice, increased transaminase levels.
Asymptomatic course of the disease.
Formation of ulcers on mucous membranes.
High fever and severe abdominal pain.

Which of the options is the most effective for preventing hepatitis B virus infection in healthcare professionals?
Vaccination against hepatitis B virus.
The use of masks and gloves.
The use of antiseptics.
Reduced contact with patients.

What role does PCR play in the diagnosis of viral hepatitis B?
To determine the presence of the virus and its genetic material in the blood.
To detect the level of antibodies in the body.
To monitor liver function.
For the diagnosis of other types of viral infections.

Which of the following pathogens causes typhus?
Salmonella enterica serotype Typhi.
Salmonella enterica serotype Enteritidis.
Shigella dysenteriae.
Escherichia coli.

Which of the following features is typical for parties A and B?
Pathogens belong to the genus Salmonella.
These are airborne viruses.
They only cause infection in infants.
These are fungi that infect the intestines.

Which of the following transmission routes is typical for typhus?
Fecal-oral route.
The airborne pathway.
Contact with animals.
Blood transmission.

Which of the symptoms is most characteristic of typhoid fever?
A gradual increase in temperature to high values.
Sudden onset of fever with chills.
Severe abdominal pain and diarrhea.
Intense headache and vomiting.

Which diagnostic method is used to confirm the diagnosis of typhus?
Bacteriological culture of blood or urine.
PCR diagnostics.
Determination of the level of antibodies in the blood.
Radiography.

Which of the stages of the disease is characteristic of the second week of typhus?
The appearance of symptoms of "pink spots" on the skin.
The appearance of cough and nasal congestion.
Slight increase in temperature.
Short-term vomiting.

What complication can occur with inadequate treatment of typhoid fever?
Intestinal perforation.
Hemorrhoids.
Migraine.
Thrombophlebitis.

Which of the drugs is used to treat typhus?
Ceftriaxone.
Acyclovir.
Penicillin.
Rifampicin.

Which of the following measures is the prevention of typhoid fever?
Vaccination against Salmonella.
The use of antiseptics for hands.
The use of antibiotics for prevention.
Restriction of contact with people.

Which of the factors contributes to the spread of typhoid fever in urban conditions?
Non-compliance with sanitary standards when handling food.
High humidity in the air.
The warm season.
Frequent rains.

Which of the symptoms is characteristic of participle A and B?
General malaise and fever.
Vomiting and frequent diarrhea.
Earaches and sore throat.
The appearance of skin rashes.

Which of the options for transferring parties A and B is the most likely?
Unprocessed drinking water or food.
Contact with infected animals.
The airborne pathway.
Contact with sick people.

Which of the following complications can occur with a bacterial infection?
Intestinal perforation and sepsis.
Kidney failure.
Epileptic seizures.
Anemia.

Which of the prevention methods is effective in preventing a bacterial infection?
Compliance with hygiene standards and sanitary treatment of products.
Flu vaccination.
Reduced consumption of animal protein.
The use of antibiotics as a preventive measure.

Which of the characteristics most accurately describes the pathogenesis of typhoid fever?
Infection begins in the intestine, spreads into the blood and can enter other organs.
The virus quickly enters the liver and causes acute inflammation.
The infection develops in the lymph nodes of the neck.
It is localized only in the bronchi and trachea.

Which of the analyzes is used to diagnose a bacterial infection?
Bacteriological culture of feces or blood.
Chest X-ray.
PCR virus analysis.
Determination of antibodies in blood serum.

Which of the clinical features occurs in the late stage of typhoid fever?
The usual symptoms of fever can be replaced by sepsis.
The appearance of skin rashes on the extremities.
Earaches and vomiting.
Diarrhea with blood.

Which of the bacteria causes parthiophium A?
Salmonella enterica serotype Paratyphi A.
Salmonella enterica serotype Typhi.
Shigella flexneri.
Escherichia coli.

Which of the drugs is used to treat a bacterial infection?
Ceftriaxone or fluoroquinolones.
Metronidazole.
Oxacillin.
Amoxicillin.

Which of the signs is usually observed when examining a patient with parthiophilic fever?
Fever with a decrease in temperature during the day.
The appearance of severe abdominal pain and diarrhea.
The appearance of headache and nausea.
Visualization of ulcers on the mucous membrane.

What is the most common complication of typhoid fever?
Intestinal perforation.
Pneumonia.
Migraine.
Epileptic seizures.

Which of the methods is the prevention of typhoid infection?
Hygiene, water and food quality control.
Strengthening the immune system through vitamins.
The use of antibiotics in contact with patients.
Vaccination against viral diseases.

What is necessary to diagnose severe typhoid fever?
Bacteriological blood culture to determine antibiotic resistance.
Chest X-ray.
PCR diagnostics for viral infections.
Examination to detect toxoplasmosis.

Which of the methods of prevention of parthial infection is effective?
Vaccination against parthiophia.
The use of vitamins.
The use of antibiotics.
Avoid contact with animals.

What treatment is recommended for patients with typhoid fever?
Antibiotics such as ceftriaxone or ampicillin.
The use of antipyretics without antibiotics.
Surgical intervention.
Treatment using antibacterial ointments.

Which of the symptoms may indicate a complication of a bacterial infection?
Intestinal perforation and sepsis.
Difficulty breathing and coughing.
Lower back pain.
Swelling of the lower extremities.

Which of the factors is most at risk of contracting typhoid fever?
Non-compliance with sanitary standards and the use of untreated water.
Frequent trips to mountainous areas.
Low ambient temperature.
Eating high-calorie foods.

Which of the examinations allows you to confirm the diagnosis of a parthial infection?
Blood culture and antibiotic sensitivity test.
ECG.
Ultrasound of the liver.
Laparoscopy.

Which of the preventive measures is effective in preventing parthiophia-type infections?
Vaccination, improvement of sanitary conditions and food processing.
The use of antibiotics.
Wearing masks.
The use of vitamin complexes.

Which of the symptoms is characteristic of parthial fever in the acute period?
Gradual onset of fever and abdominal pain.
A sharp increase in body temperature.
From absence of abdominal pain.
Slight malaise and headache.

A patient with cholera and severe dehydration. What complication can develop if left untreated?
Hypovolemic shock and renal failure.
Acute hyperthermia.
Acute heart failure.
Allergic reaction.

The patient complains of loose stools and nausea after drinking untreated water in a region with a high incidence of cholera. What is the most likely diagnosis?
Cholera.
Viral hepatitis.
Dysentery.
Acute intestinal infection.

In an epidemic outbreak of cholera in a refugee camp, what needs to be done first to prevent the spread of infection?
Provide high-quality water supply and sanitation.
Apply antibiotics to all residents.
Isolate patients from other people.
Vaccinate all refugees.

The patient was admitted with signs of cholera and dehydration. He can't drink water on his own. What method of rehydration should be used?
Intravenous administration of electrolyte solutions.
Oral administration of vitamins.
The use of antipyretics.
The use of antibacterial drugs.

A patient with cholera in the midst of an epidemic. What additional preventive measure should be used to protect others?
Sanitary isolation of patients and monitoring of hygiene conditions.
Use protective masks and gloves for everyone.
The use of antibiotics in preventive doses.
The use of cholera vaccines for everyone.

Which microorganism is the causative agent of cholera?
Vibrio cholerae.
Salmonella enterica.
Shigella dysenteriae.
Escherichia coli.

Which of the ways of cholera transmission is the main one?
The fecal-oral route.
The airborne pathway.
The contact path.
Through insect bites.

What is one of the features of cholera pathogenesis?
The production of a toxin that stimulates the intensive release of fluid into the intestine.
The bacterium enters the intestinal cells and causes inflammation.
Infection causes ulcers to form on the intestinal mucosa.
Viruses attack liver cells and cause their destruction.

Which of the following symptoms is characteristic of cholera?
Liquid, "rice" stools.
Constant fever and headache.
High body temperature and cough.
Difficulty breathing and shortness of breath.

What is the degree of dehydration typical for a patient with a loss of 5-10% of body weight?
Moderate degree of dehydration.
Mild degree of dehydration.
Severe degree of dehydration.
Extremely severe degree of dehydration.

Which of the treatment methods is the main one for cholera?
Oral rehydration.
Antibiotic therapy.
The use of antipyretic drugs.
Surgical intervention.

Which of the drugs is used to treat cholera in case of severe illness?
Tetracycline or doxycycline.
Acyclovir.
Penicillin.
Rifampicin.

What kind of prophylaxis is recommended to prevent cholera?
Vaccination and compliance with sanitary standards.
The use of antibiotics before the trip.
Drinking only bottled water.
Restriction of meat and fish consumption.

Which of the symptoms of cholera is observed in a patient in the second stage of the disease?
Severe diarrhea with copious watery discharge.
Fever and cough.
Severe abdominal pain and vomiting.
Heavy nosebleed.

What complication can occur in cholera in the case of untreated dehydration?
Kidney failure.
Pneumonia.
Heart failure.
Migraine.

Which of the symptoms is common in severe dehydration?
Shock, drop in blood pressure.
Slight thirst.
Nausea and headache.
Skin hydration.

What role does cholera toxin play in the pathogenesis of the disease?
It causes increased release of fluids and electrolytes into the intestines.
It promotes the development of inflammation in the intestine.
It blocks the work of cells of the immune system.
It destroys intestinal cells and causes ulcers.

Which of the symptoms of cholera indicates the onset of severe dehydration?
Decreased blood pressure and tachycardia.
Fever and headache.
Decreased appetite and feeling tired.
Signs of general intoxication.

Which of the symptoms is observed in the late stage of cholera in the absence of treatment?
Collapse and repeated vomiting attacks.
Slight malaise and headache.
Shortness of breath and difficulty breathing.
Vomiting with blood and ulcers on the mucous membrane.

Which of the factors most contributes to the spread of cholera in developing countries?
Lack of sanitation and contamination of drinking water.
Frequent flu epidemics.
Low air temperatures.
High population density.

What is the degree of dehydration determined by losing more than 10% of body weight?
Severe dehydration.
Mild degree of dehydration.
Moderate degree of dehydration.
Extreme degree of dehydration.

Which of the drugs is the main one for cholera prevention?
The cholera vaccine.
Antifungal drugs.
Broad-spectrum antibiotics.
Medications for the treatment of diarrhea.

Which of the symptoms is most characteristic of the first stage of cholera?
Profuse watery diarrhea.
Earaches and purulent discharge.
Sore throat and difficulty breathing.
Skin hydration and hyperhidrosis.

Which of the recommendations for the treatment of cholera is correct?
Oral rehydration and antibiotic therapy.
The use of painkillers.
Surgical intervention to remove intestinal ulcers.
The use of antiviral drugs.

Which of the characteristics of cholera is found in the clinical picture of the disease?
Persistent, watery diarrhea and vomiting.
Constant headache and dizziness.
Increased body temperature and nasal congestion.
Difficulty breathing and coughing.

Which diagnostic method is used to confirm the diagnosis of cholera?
Bacteriological culture from feces.
PCR diagnostics.
Throat swab.
Chest X-ray.

Which of the following is the main mechanism of action of cholera toxin?
Activation of adenylate cyclase and an increase in cAMP levels in epithelial cells.
Inhibition of sodium ions in cells.
Increased sensitivity of cells to viruses.
Blocking the activity of microbial cells.

What role do antibiotics play in the treatment of cholera?
They reduce the duration of the disease and reduce the number of bacteria in the body.
They contribute to the improvement of metabolism in the body.
They speed up the rehabilitation process.
They completely eliminate all the symptoms of the disease.

Which of the characteristics may indicate severe dehydration in cholera?
Decreased blood pressure and cold extremities.
Slight thirst and weakness.
Mild diarrhea with low fever.
Moisturizing the skin and eyes.

Which drugs should be used to treat moderate dehydration in cholera?
Oral rehydration solutions.
Intravenous infusions with vitamins.
Antiviral drugs.
Broad-spectrum antibiotics.

Which of the symptoms of cholera is the first at the onset of the disease?
Vomiting and diarrhea.
Abdominal pain and fever.
Earaches and dizziness.
Slight malaise and weakness.

Which of the mechanisms prevents cholera disease?
Compliance with sanitary standards and high-quality water purification.
The use of vitamins to strengthen the immune system.
Reducing the consumption of food containing protein.
The use of antiviral drugs.

Which of the complications can occur with cholera?
Renal failure and hypovolemic shock.
Hemorrhoids and diarrhea.
Pulmonary embolism.
Acute ventricular failure.

Which factors contribute to an increased risk of contracting cholera?
Poor sanitation, lack of clean water.
Weak immune system.
Frequent trips to equatorial countries.
High air temperature.

Which of the symptoms is characteristic of late-stage cholera?
Sudden drop in blood pressure and shock.
Slight dizziness and nausea.
Moistening of mucous membranes.
Fever and sweating.

What pathogen causes shigellosis?
Shigella
Salmonella
Escherichia coli
Campylobacter

What is the most common form of shigellosis in developed countries?
Shigella sonnei
Shigella dysenteriae
Shigella flexneri
Shigella boydii

What is the main reason for the spread of shigellosis in developing countries?
Poor sanitation and poor hygiene
Eating contaminated food
Lack of vaccination
Flying insects

Which is the most common transmission route for shigellosis?
Fecal-oral
Airborne
Through insect bites
Through contact with animals

What are the main symptoms of shigellosis?
Diarrhea mixed with blood and mucus
High fever and chills
Severe headache
Dry skin

Which antibacterial drug is most commonly used to treat shigellosis?
Ciprofloxacin
Amoxicillin
Levofloxacin
Clarithromycin

What complication can develop with shigellosis if left untreated?
Dehydration and electrolyte imbalance
Chronic cough
Pneumonia
Impaired kidney function

What changes in laboratory tests are characteristic of shigellosis?
Leukocytosis with neutrophilia
Leukopenia
Hypoglycemia
Thrombocytosis

What is the incubation period typical for shigellosis?
1-7 days
24 hours
10-14 days
2-4 weeks

Which of these statements about the treatment of shigellosis is correct?
Antibiotics are used to treat shigellosis
Symptomatic therapy is enough
Vaccination is the main preventive measure
Treatment is not required for mild forms

What is the most dangerous form of shigellosis due to possible complications?
Shigella dysenteriae (possible toxic megacolon)
Shigella boydii (mild form)
Shigella sonnei (without complications)
Shigella flexneri (rarely causes complications)

Which of these preventive measures is effective against shigellosis?
Observance of hygiene and purity of water
Mass vaccination
Eating only pasteurized foods
Avoiding contact with infected people

Which of these diseases is NOT associated with shigellosis?
Flu
Typhus
Dysentery
Colitis

What is the clinical manifestation of shigellosis?
Bloody diarrhea
Headache
Chest pain
Burn when urinating

What can be a complication of shigellosis if it is not treated?
Intestinal perforation
Deafness
Sepsis
Pneumonia

What risk factors contribute to the spread of shigellosis?
Poor sanitation and lack of clean water
Low level of physical activity
Antibiotic use
Frequent flights

Which of these methods is the main one for the prevention of shigellosis in the field of public health?
Ensuring the purity of water
Regular vaccination of the population
Antibiotic prevention
Application of antiseptics on the surface

Which of the statements is true about shigellosis?
Antibiotic treatment is necessary to suppress infection
Vaccination is effective against all strains of Shigella
Surgical intervention is always required for shigellosis
The infection is transmitted only through contact with animals

Which of these symptoms is the earliest in shigellosis?
Abdominal pain
Dry mouth
Swelling of the face
Sore throat

Which of these pathogens causes the most severe forms of shigellosis?
Shigella dysenteriae
Shigella boydii
Shigella sonnei
Shigella flexneri

Which amoeba is the causative agent of amoebiasis?
Entamoeba histolytica
Entamoeba coli
Giardia lamblia
Toxoplasma gondii

Which is the most common transmission route for amoebiasis?
Fecal-oral
Airborne
Contact with animals
Through insect bites

What clinical manifestations are characteristic of amoebiasis?
Diarrhea with blood, abdominal pain, fever
Constant headache, weakness
Shortness of breath, cough
Muscle pain, stiffness

What drug is used to treat amoebiasis?
Metronidazole
Amoxicillin
Ceftriaxone
Clarithromycin

What is the most common complication of amoebiasis?
Amoebic liver abscess
Pneumonia
Sepsis
Burn of the mucous membrane

What factors contribute to the spread of amoebiasis?
Poor sanitation and polluted water use
Lack of physical activity
Improper nutrition
Antibiotic treatment

What is the most effective diagnostic method for detecting amoebiasis?
Microscopy of faeces
Radiography
Throat swab
Liver biopsy

Which of the drugs is most effective for amoebic liver abscess?
Metronidazole with chloroquine
Amoxicillin
Levofloxacin
Sulfonamides

Which of these symptoms is characteristic of the extraintestinal form of amoebiasis?
Pain in the right hypochondrium (amoebic liver abscess)
Shortness of breath
Lower back pain
Visual impairments

Which of these diseases is NOT associated with amoebiasis?
Bronchitis
Amoebic dysentery
Amoebic liver abscess
Leishmaniasis

Which microorganism is the cause of botulism?
Clostridium botulinum
Bacillus cereus
Salmonella enterica
Streptococcus pyogenes

What is the mechanism of action of botulinum toxin?
Inhibits the release of acetylcholine in presynaptic neurons
Increases the permeability of cell membranes
Stimulates the release of serotonin
Disrupts protein synthesis in cells

Which of the risk factors is most often associated with botulism?
Consumption of canned foods that have not undergone proper heat treatment
Dust inhalation
Unprocessed vegetables
Contact with infected animals

What is the main form of botulism transmission?
Oral route (through infected food)
Contact with infected skin
Sexual path
Airborne pathway

Which of the symptoms is most characteristic of botulism?
Double vision (diplopia)
Fever and chills
Headache
Shortness of breath

What are the main complications of botulism?
Respiratory failure
Acute gastritis
Leukopenia
Bleeding

What is the main treatment for botulism?
Introduction of botulism toxoid
Prescribing broad-spectrum antibiotics
Use of flame retardants
Appointment of B vitamins

What is the role of antibiotics in the treatment of botulism?
Antibiotics are not effective in the toxic form of the disease
Antibiotics are the main treatment method
Antibiotics are used to prevent secondary infections
Antibiotics reduce the effect of botulinum toxin

When is it necessary to inject toxoid for botulism?
Immediately after confirmation of diagnosis
2-3 days after symptoms
When does paralysis begin
When the temperature appears

What kind of prevention can be done to prevent botulism?
Compliance with the correct technologies of canning and heat treatment of food
Use of chemical preservatives
Cooling food to low temperatures
The use of antibiotics

Which virus most often causes gastroenteritis in children?
Rotavirus
Norovirus
Adenovirus
Flu virus

What is the main form of viral diarrhea transmission?
Fecal-oral route
Airborne pathway
Household contact path
Sexual path

What is the mechanism of pathogenesis in rotavirus diarrhea?
Damage to epithelial cells of the small intestine
Increased vascular permeability
Liver and gallbladder infection
Impaired gastric motility

What are the clinical manifestations of viral diarrhea?
Loose stools, vomiting, fever, stomach ache
Cough and runny nose
Shortness of breath and fever
Headache and migraine

What complications can occur with viral diarrhea?
Dehydration of the body
Lymphadenopathy
Pneumonia
Hypoglycemia
