The patient was admitted to an infectious diseases hospital with a diagnosis of acute viral hepatitis A. The examination revealed jaundice and elevated bilirubin levels. What will be the first step in treatment?
Symptomatic therapy, including hydration and maintenance of liver function
Use of antiviral drugs
Prescribing antibiotics to prevent complications
Immediate chemotherapy

A patient with viral hepatitis E is admitted with increased bilirubin levels and acute deterioration of liver function. What additional examination should be performed to clarify the diagnosis?
Determination of IgM antibodies to hepatitis E virus
General urinalysis
PCR diagnosis for viral hepatitis B
Ultrasound of the liver

What document should be filled out when a patient with viral hepatitis is admitted to an infectious diseases hospital?
Hospital patient's medical record with diagnosis and concomitant diseases
Patient examination protocol in an outpatient clinic
Disability certificate
Power of attorney for obtaining medical documents

When a patient with suspected viral hepatitis A is admitted to an infectious diseases hospital, what preventive measures should be taken?
Isolation of the patient in the infectious diseases department and compliance with sanitary and epidemiological standards
Administration of antiviral drugs
Sending the patient to the surgical department
Appointment of a general blood test

A patient with viral hepatitis A and severe jaundice was admitted to the hospital. Which of the following factors is most important in assessing the patient's condition?
Assessment of liver function (bilirubin, transaminase levels)
Assessment of the cardiovascular system
Evaluation of kidney function
Assessment of the presence of inflammatory changes in the lungs

A patient with hepatitis C virus arrived with signs of cirrhosis. Which of the following measures should be included in his treatment?
Use of antiviral drugs such as sofosbuvir.
Performing a surgical operation.
The use of antibacterial therapy.
The use of steroids.

A patient with chronic hepatitis B complains of weakness and decreased appetite. Which analysis will be the most informative to assess the activity of the virus?
Determination of transaminase levels (ALT and AST).
General blood test.
Ultrasound of the liver.
Radiography

When admitting a patient with viral hepatitis A to the infectious diseases department, what safety measures should medical personnel follow?
Use of personal protective equipment (gloves, masks, bathrobes)
Waiting for the end of the incubation period
Carrying out all procedures without observing security measures
Introduction of the patient to the department without isolation

A patient with fever, weakness and abdominal pain was admitted to the hospital. Which diagnostic method do you use to confirm the diagnosis of typhoid fever?
Bacteriological blood culture.
PCR diagnostics.
Chest X-ray.
Ultrasound of the liver.

When a patient with viral hepatitis E is admitted to an infectious diseases hospital, what preventive measures should be taken for other patients and staff?
Compliance with sanitary and hygienic standards and isolation of the patient
Use of antibiotics to prevent infections
Waiting for the incubation period for other patients
Preventive use of antiseptics for staff

The patient was admitted with jaundice, and his medical history indicates a possible hepatitis B virus infection. What kind of analysis will you prescribe to confirm the diagnosis?
Determination of HBsAg in blood.
Determination of antibodies to hepatitis C virus.
PCR for hepatitis A virus.
Ultrasound of the liver.

A patient with chronic hepatitis C complains of fatigue and abdominal pain. Which of the following methods will be most useful for assessing the condition of the liver?
Liver ultrasound to assess fibrosis.
Hepatitis B virus antibody test.
Chest X-ray.
ECG.

A patient with viral hepatitis B was admitted with an acute deterioration in his condition. What first aid measures should be taken?
Rest and hydration, liver function control.
Immediate administration of antiviral drugs.
Liver transplant surgery.
The use of broad-spectrum antibiotics.

A patient with fever, weakness and no diarrhea, but with the appearance of pink spots on the skin. What diagnosis should be suspected?
Typhoid fever.
Viral hepatitis.
Bronchitis.
Dysentery.

After traveling to a developing country, the patient complains of fever and roseolas rash in epigastical part of abdomen. Which disease should be excluded?
Typhoid fever.
Raspberries.
Dengue fever.
Brucellosis.
