

How many lobes does the brain have?
4
3
2
1

Number of segments in the cervical spinal cord
8
10
7
6

Number of segments in the thoracic spinal cord
12
10
8
14

Number of segments in the lumbar spinal cord
5
4
8
2

Specify the unpaired lobe of the brain?
Occipital
Temporal
Parietal
Frontal

What cranial nerve nuclei are located in the pons?
V; VI; VII; VIII
V; VI; VII; VIII
IX, X, XI, XII
VIII; IX; X
The part of the brain that is the material basis of human mental activity is?
cerebral cortex
medulla
midbrain
diencephalon
Where does nerve impulse transmission occur?
in synapses
in mitochondria
in lysosomes
in the cytoplasm

The doctor revealed a lesion of the patient's midbrain. Indicate which cranial nerve damage allowed the diagnosis to be established?
III, IV
IV, V, VI
IX, XI, XII
VII, VIII

In what area of the internal capsule are the fibers of the cortical-spinal tract located?
In the anterior two-thirds of the posterior thigh
At the knee
In the anterior thigh
In the posterior third of the posterior thigh

Where do the fibers of the cortical-spinal pathway end?
In the anterior horns of the spinal cord
In the lateral horns of the spinal cord
In the posterior horns of the spinal cord
In the motor nuclei of the cranial nerves

Specify at the level of which segments the upper abdominal reflex closes?
D7 - D8
D9 - D10
D8 - D10
D11 - D12

Specify at the level of which segments the flexion - elbow reflex closes?
C5 - C6
C3 - C4
C7 - C8
C6 - C7

Specify at the level of which segments the knee reflex closes?
L2 - L4
L1 - L3
L2 - L3
D11 - D12


Specify at the level of which segments the extensor - elbow reflex closes?
C7 - C8
C6 - C7
C5 - C6
C3 - C4

The pathological reflexes of the flexor group include?
Rossolimo, Zhukovsky - Kornilov, Bekhterev - Mendel
Rossolimo, Zhukovsky - Kornilov, Oppenheim
Rossolimo, Zhukovsky - Kornilov, Schaefer
Rossolimo, Bekhterev - Mendel, Poussepp

Pathological extensor reflexes include?
Oppenheim, Gordon, Schaeffer
Babinsky, Rossolimo, Schaeffer
Oppenheim, Schiffer, Brudzinsky's lower symptom
Oppenheim, Gordon, Strumpel


The doctor identified a central paresis in the patient. What are the signs of central paralysis?
The presence of synkinesia 
Hypotension
Atony 
Atrophy

In which of the following formations are the conductors of both pain and temperature, and deep sensitivity?
back roots
the lateral cord of the spinal cord
the posterior cord of the spinal cord
the posterior horns of the spinal cord

In the posterior horns of the spinal cord located?
The second neurons of the path of pain and temperature sensitivity
Vegetative sympathetic cells
The first neurons of the path of pain and temperature sensitivity
Clark pillar cells

In what part of the inner capsule do the sensing conductors pass?
posterior 1/3 of posterior femur
anterior 2/3 of anterior femur
posterior 1/3 of anterior femur
knee


What is the name of the ability to identify numbers and figures drawn on the skin with a blunt object?
two-dimensional spatial sense
discriminatory feeling
sense of stereognosis
skin-kinesthetic sense

Where and what types of sensitivity are disturbed in case of damage to the left visual tubercle?
Superficial and deep sensitivity on the right
Superficial and deep sensitivity on the left
Superficial sensitivity on the left, deep - on the right
Superficial sensitivity on the right, deep - on the left


What is the structure of the brain that belongs to the extrapyramidal system?
Caudate nucleus
Goll and Burdach kernels
Anterior horns of the spinal cord
Precentral gyrus

What is the structure of the brain that belongs to the palidar section of the extrapyramidal system?
black substance
shell
fencing
4,6,8 cortical fields (according to Brodmann)


What is a reliable clinical sign of Parkinson's syndrome?
oligobradykinesia
paresis
hypoalgesia
micrography

The patient, against the background of high body temperature, developed involuntary slow worm-like movements in the fingers of his left hand. It?
Athetosis
Tremor
Hemibalism
Torticolis
With rapid supination and pronation, the patient's movements are awkward, sweeping and out of sync. What is the name of the symptom?
adiadochokinesis
asynergy
dysmetria
backlash symptom

Which of the following symptoms indicates damage to the cerebellum?
ataxia
spastic paresis
flaccid paresis
cog wheel symptom

The patient bends the arm with the hand folded into a fist to the horizontal at the elbow joint, and the doctor tries to straighten the forearm. With a sudden cessation of resistance, the subject's hand hits the chest with force. What is the name of the test?
Stuart Holmes test
Index test
Babinsky's test
Ozhechovsky's test

What type of gait is typical for cerebellar lesions?
"drunk"
"stamping"
"cock"
"steppage"

Which of the following methods are methods for studying the function of the cerebellum?
Schilder's test
Barre test
Symptom Neri
Symptom Lesage

Methods for studying the function of the cerebellum include?
Study of gait, muscle tone, finger-nose test
Muscle strength study, deep sensitivity study
Finger-nose test, muscle tone, surface sensitivity test
Examination of deep sensitivity, muscle tone, finger-nose test


The patient has ataxia, scrambled speech, intentional tremor. It?
 Cerebellar ataxia
 Vestibular ataxia
 Sensitive ataxia
 Astasia-abasia


The patient has a tumor of the cerebellum. What speech disorder does he have?
Scanned speech
Nasal
Quiet monotonous
Aphasia

Specify the afferent arc of the pupillary reflex?
Optic nerve
Trigeminal nerve
Abducens nerve
Oculomotor nerve

Specify the efferent arc of the pupillary reflex?
Oculomotor nerve
Optic nerve
Trigeminal nerve
Abducens nerve

What structures are affected by loss of sensitivity on the face according to the peripheral type?
Superior branch of the trigeminal nerve
Trigeminal nucleus
Internal capsule
Talamo-cortical pathway

What does the abducens nerve innervate?
Musculus rectus lateralis
Musculus rectus medialis
Musculus obliqvus inferior
Musculus obliquus superior

In what region of the cortex is the center of smell located?
In the parahypocampal gyrus
In the optic tubercle
In the hypothalamus
In the outer geniculate body

Where is the lesion located in visual hallucinations?
In the cerebral cortex of the occipital lobe
In the outer geniculate body
In the optic tubercle
In the optic tract

Specify the symptom of trochlear nerve lesion?
Diplopia when looking down
Mild exotropia
Strabismus
Diplopia when looking outward


Where is the focus located in bitemporal hemianopia?
At the level of the chiasm
Optic tract
In the area of the outer parts of the chiasm
Occipital lobe

The patient was found to have oculomotor disorders on the left, central hemiparesis on the right. Where is the lesion?
Midbrain
Radiant crown
Internal capsule
Bridge

Specify, where does the decussation of the cortico-nuclear pathway to the nucleus of the hypoglossal nerve occur?
In the medulla oblongata
In the legs of the brain
At the border of the transition of the medulla oblongata to the spinal cord
In the bridge

Specify, where does the decussation of the corticonuclear pathway to the motor nucleus of the vagus nerve occur?
In the medulla oblongata
At the border of the transition of the medulla oblongata to the spinal cord
In the bridge
In the legs of the brain

What muscles receive unilateral cortical innervation?
Tongue
Chewable
Oculomotor
Upper mimic muscles

Determine which of the following symptoms is common for bulbar and pseudobulbar syndromes?
dysarthria
tongue muscle atrophy
decreased gag reflex
reflexes of oral automatism 

Which of the following symptoms is common for bulbar and pseudobulbar syndromes?
dysphagia
tongue muscle atrophy
decreased gag reflex
reflexes of oral automatism

Name which of the following symptoms is common for bulbar and pseudobulbar syndromes?
dysphonia
reflexes of oral automatism
violent laughing or crying
tongue muscle atrophy 

Specify the localization of the pathological focus in pseudobulbar syndrome?
cortical-nuclear pathways in both hemispheres of the brain
brain stem
bridge
medulla

What is the symptom of bulbar syndrome?
no gag reflex
violent laughing or crying
lack of atrophy of the muscles of the tongue
increased gag reflex

Specify the symptom of bulbar syndrome?
tongue muscle atrophy
increased gag reflex
lack of atrophy of the muscles of the tongue 
violent laughing or crying

What is the symptom of pseudobulbar syndrome?
reflexes of oral automatism
loss of sensation in 1/3 of the tongue
fibrillar twitching of the muscles of the tongue
no gag reflex

What is the pathology of speech characteristic of bulbar syndrome?
dysarthria
mutism
quiet, monotonous speech
scanned speech

What nerve is affected with dysphonia?
IX
VIII
ХI
ХII

The doctor diagnosed the patient with symptoms of damage to the IX, X, XI and XII nerves on the right and left-sided hemiparesis. Where is the lesion?
medulla oblongata on the right
medulla oblongata on the left
bridge on the right
bridge on the left

Where is the lesion in the presence of apraxia in the patient?
parietal lobe
occipital lobe
temporal lobe
cerebellum

Where is the lesion if the patient has agraphy?
frontal lobe
parietal lobe
occipital lobe
temporal lobe

 Where is the lesion in the presence of Alexia in the patient?
parietal lobe
occipital lobe
temporal lobe
cerebellum

 Where is the lesion if the patient has acalculia?
parietal lobe
occipital lobe
temporal lobe
cerebellum

 Where is the lesion if the patient has visual agnosia?
occipital lobe
temporal lobe
cerebellum
frontal lobe

The patient was diagnosed with a cyst on a CT scan of the brain, which irritates the upper part of the precentral gyrus on the right. Name the symptoms:
Jackson's epilepsy in the left leg
Central paresis of facial muscles
Spastic monoplegia of the left hand
Jackson's epilepsy in the left hand

The patient periodically has seizures in his left arm without loss of consciousness. Where is the focus localized?
The middle section of the precentral gyrus on the right
The middle section of the precentral gyrus on the left
The lower part of the precentral gyrus on the right
The upper part of the precentral gyrus on the right

The patient has astereognosis in his left arm. The superficial and deep sensitivity in the hand is preserved. Specify the localization of the pathological focus: 
 Right parietal lobe 
 Left temporal lobe 
 Right temporal lobe 
 The visual hillock

Specify the area of the brain in which the alpha rhythm on the EEG is best expressed?
 occipital
 parietal
 frontal
 precentral gyrus

Specify the most informative method of examination for brain tumors?
MRI
CT
ENMG
EEG

The most reliable method of diagnosing intracranial aneurysms?
Angiography
 Computed tomography scanning
 Positron emission tomography
 Computed tomography by single photon emission method

The most reliable method of diagnosis of arteriovenous malformations of the brain?
Angiography
 Computed tomography scanning
 Positron emission tomography
 Computed tomography by single photon emission method

The most reliable method of diagnosing the demyelinating process of the brain?
 Magnetic resonance scanning
Angiography
 Computed tomography scanning
 Positron emission tomography

What is the name of the method of examining the main vessels of the head in the extracranial and intracranial departments?
ultrasound dopplerography
rheoencephalography
electroneuromyography
echoencephalography

What is the name of the method of registering bioelectric activity of the brain through intact head coverings?
 electroencephalography
echoencephalography
ultrasound dopplerography
rheoencephalography

What is the most informative research method for spinal cord tumors?
Magnetic resonance imaging
Lumbar puncture
Radiography of the spine
Myelography

Choose a combination of clinical syndromes that are inherent in ischemic stroke? 
 focal, cerebral
general infectious, cerebral, focal
cerebral, meningeal, liquor
cerebral, focal, liquor

Specify the stages of the acute period of stroke? 
 precursors, apoplectic stroke, focal changes
precursors, focal changes
cephalgic, focal changes
harbingers, apoplectic stroke

How long does the acute period of ischemic stroke last? 
 21 days
14 days
28 days
1 day

What disease should be differentiated from ischemic stroke with a gradual increase in focal symptoms? 
 brain tumor
brain abscess
encephalitis
encephalopathy

What disease should be differentiated from ischemic stroke in apoplectiform development? 
 hemorrhagic stroke
brain tumor
brain abscess
encephalitis

The most important pathogenetic mechanisms of atherothrombotic stroke? 
 occlusion of the main arteries of the head
increased blood coagulability
increased adhesion and aggregation of blood cells
disruption of autoregulation of cerebral circulation with a sharp increase or decrease in blood pressure

The most effective methods of treating atherothrombotic stroke in the first 3 hours from its onset? 
 use of tissue plasminogen activator (actilize).
use of direct anticoagulants (heparin, fraxiparin, phenylin)
use of antiplatelet agents (aspirin, ticlid, Plavix, etc.).
use of vasoactive agents (Cavinton, pentoxifylline, euphylline).

What is the most common cause of cardioembolic stroke? 
 atrial fibrillation
rheumatism
atherosclerosis
septic endocarditis

What paraclinical examination methods can be used to verify a stroke? 
 CT scan
Echo-ES
Studies of blood coagulating properties
Doppler ultrasound

In case of acute cerebrovascular accident, in which area of the brain can alternating syndromes occur? 
 bridge
inner capsule
thalamus
hypothalamus

Which of the following nosologies should be differentiated from encephalomyelitis most often? 
 multiple sclerosis
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
parainfectious encephalitis
spinal tumor

How is prednisolone prescribed for the treatment of exacerbation of multiple sclerosis? 
 1.0 mg/kg
0.6 mg/kg
0.5 mg/kg
0.1 mg/kg

Criteria for diagnosing “definite multiple sclerosis” 
 presence of two clinical lesions and at least two exacerbations
the presence of one clinical focus and at least two exacerbations
presence of lower spastic paraparesis
presence of lower spastic paraparesis and pelvic disorders

Criteria for diagnosing multiple sclerosis on MRI 
 presence of foci of demyelination in the white matter of the brain, 2 of them - periventricular
the presence of foci of demyelination and atrophy of the cerebral cortex
presence of foci of demyelination in the brain stem and cerebellum
the presence of foci of demyelination in the brain stem

Name a drug for the treatment of severe exacerbation of multiple sclerosis? 
 solumedrol
immunomodulators
dexamethasone
prednisolone

Specify a hereditary disease affecting the neuromuscular system 
 myopathy
hepato-cerebral dystrophy
Pierre Marie's ataxia
Friedreich's ataxia

Indicate which clinical symptom is characteristic of juvenile Erb–Roth myopathy 
 "wasp" waist, "duck" gait
atrophy of the muscles of the distal limbs
paresis of the extremities of the central type
sensitivity disorders

Indicate which symptom is characteristic of primary progressive muscular dystrophy (myopathy) 
 decreased muscle tone
fibrillary twitching
presence of pathological reflexes
sensitivity disorders

The patient was diagnosed with primary progressive muscular dystrophy. Specify which symptom is characteristic of primary progressive muscular dystrophy (myopathy) 
 decreased or absent tendon reflexes
presence of pathological reflexes
sensitivity disorders
pain

The doctor diagnosed primary progressive muscular dystrophy in the patient. Indicate which symptom is characteristic of primary progressive muscular dystrophy (myopathy) 
 "Duck" gait
Fibrillary twitching
Pain
Presence of pathological reflexes

The patient was diagnosed with primary progressive muscular dystrophy. Specify a symptom characteristic of this pathology 
 atrophy of the proximal muscle groups of the limbs
presence of pathological reflexes
sensitivity disorders
pain

A 30-year-old patient suffering from epileptic disease experienced three attacks of tonic-clonic convulsions within 1 hour; consciousness was not restored between attacks. blood pressure - 160/100 mm. Hg Art., heart rate - 100/min., breathing is noisy, with the participation of auxiliary muscles. Name the most likely condition in the patient? 
 status epilepticus
prolonged epileptic seizure
series of epileptic seizures
transient ischemic attacks

The patient experiences attacks of short-term loss of consciousness (up to 15 s) several times a day, during which the head falls to the chest. This: 
 complex typical absence seizure
absence seizure
simple atypical absence seizure
simple typical absence seizure

In patient K., 32 years old, a major convulsive attack is preceded by violent turns of the head and eyes to the left. Name the type of seizure: 
 adversive
absence seizure
procursive
Jacksonian

A patient developed a full-blown epileptic seizure while drinking alcohol while awake. In neurological status - no abnormalities. MRI revealed no focal changes. What most likely developed in the patient? 
 epileptic reaction
epileptic disease
epileptic syndrome
alcohol poisoning

The patient experienced a full-blown epileptic seizure as a result of the electric shock. In neurological status - no abnormalities. MRI shows no focality. What most likely developed in the patient? 
 epileptic reaction
epileptic disease
epileptic syndrome
alcohol poisoning

A 23-year-old patient has a sudden loss of consciousness and tonic-clonic convulsions. The attack was preceded by twitching in the right limbs. Where is the focus of pathological excitation most likely located? 
 frontal lobe
left parietal lobe
temporal lobe
right parietal lobe

The patient developed attacks of twitching of the right foot, spreading to the entire leg and lasting several minutes. The patient did not lose consciousness. On examination: paresis of the right foot after an attack, deep reflexes in the right leg are increased, Babinski's sign is on the right. Specify the type of attack: 
 Jacksonian epilepsy
absence seizure
Kozhevnikov epilepsy
myoclonus

The patient developed attacks of numbness in her right foot, which spread to her entire right foot half of the body and last up to several minutes. Doesn't lose consciousness. Specify the type of attack: 
 Jacksonian epilepsy
absence seizure
Kozhevnikov epilepsy
myoclonus
The doctor diagnosed the patient with “Epileptic disease with frequent generalized seizures.” How many seizures did the patient have that allowed us to determine this frequency? 
 4 or more per month
4 or more per week
4 or more per year
4 or more per day

The doctor diagnosed the patient with “Epileptic disease with rare generalized convulsive seizures.” How many seizures did the patient have that allowed us to determine this frequency? 
 1-2 per month
1-2 per week
1-2 per year
1-2 per day

The doctor diagnosed the patient with “Epileptic disease with an average frequency of generalized convulsive attacks.” How many seizures does a patient have that qualify as “average frequency”? 
 3 per month
3 per week
3 per year
3 per day

The doctor diagnosed the patient with “Epileptic disease with frequent partial seizures.” How many seizures did the patient have that allowed us to determine this frequency? 
 5 or more per day
5 or more per week
5 or more per year
5 or more per month

The doctor decided to prescribe combination therapy to a patient with asynchronous and atypical seizures, in whom monotherapy was ineffective. Which of the following combinations is undesirable? 
 Carmabazepine/phenotoin
Lamotrigine/topiramate
Valproate/topiramate
Valproate/lamotrigine

The doctor decided to prescribe combination therapy to a patient with asynchronous and atypical seizures, in whom monotherapy was ineffective. Which of the following combinations is undesirable? 
 Carmabazepine/lamotrigine
Lamotrigine/topiramate
Valproate/topiramate
Valproate/lamotrigine

Patient B has been suffering from epileptic disease for 10 years. Throughout the entire period, he took valproate, but due to the increase in attacks, the doctor adjusted the treatment and prescribed a new generation drug. Indicate which of the following drugs belongs to the new generation: 
 Keppra
Valprokom
Carbamazepine
Ethosuxemide

Common cause of secondary trigeminal neuralgia? 
 sinusitis
multiple sclerosis
tumors
frontal sinusitis

The appearance of pain along the front surface of the thigh when bending the leg at the knee joint, in a patient lying on his stomach, is this? 
 Matskevich symptom
Sicard's sign
Waserman's sign
Neri's symptom

The appearance of pain along the front surface of the thigh when bending the leg at the hip joint, in a patient lying on his stomach, is this? 
 Waserman's sign
Neri's symptom
Matskevich symptom
Sicard's sign

The appearance of pain in the lower back when coughing or sneezing is this? 
 Dejerine's symptom
Sicard's sign
Waserman's sign
Neri's symptom

The appearance of pain in the lower back when tilting the head forward is -? 
 Neri's symptom
Dejerine's symptom
Sicard's sign
Waserman's sign

With compression of the L3-L4 roots, will the tension symptom be the most pronounced? 
 Wasserman's sign
Bonnet-Bobrovnikov symptom
Fenz's sign
Lasègue's symptom

What is the drug of choice for trigeminal neuralgia? 
 carbamazepine
pentalgin
suprastin
baralgin

What are the contraindications to manual therapy? 
 Spine compression
Lumbago
Sciatica
Lumbodynia

What are the contraindications for skeletal traction? 
 Presence of a sequestered hernia
Severe pain syndrome
Loss of Achilles reflex
Loss of knee reflex

Indicate, when which nerve is damaged, deviation of the lower jaw to the side is observed? 
 V pair
VIpair
VII pair
IX pair

The doctor revealed that the patient had a peripheral sensitivity disorder on the face. Indicate which structure is damaged when this sensitivity disorder occurs? 
 ophthalmic branch of the trigeminal nerve
nucleus of the spinal tract of the trigeminal nerve
inferior part of the postcentral gyrus
thalamo-cortical pathways

The patient was diagnosed with a peripheral sensitivity disorder on the face. Indicate which structure is damaged when this sensitivity disorder occurs? 
 maxillary branch of the trigeminal nerve
nucleus of the spinal tract of the trigeminal nerve
inferior part of the postcentral gyrus
internal capsule

The child has a peripheral sensitivity disorder on the face. Indicate which structure is damaged when this sensitivity disorder occurs? 
 mandibular branch of the trigeminal nerve
nucleus of the spinal tract of the trigeminal nerve
inferior part of the postcentral gyrus
thalamo-cortical pathways

What are the symptoms of stage II radiographic osteochondrosis? 
 decreased intervertebral disc height
presence of spondyloarthrosis
decreased intervertebral disc height and endplate sclerosis
scoliosis of the spine

Which of the following drugs is used for dehydrating purposes? 
 dexamethasone
platiphylline
chime
dexalgin

Which of the following drugs is a muscle relaxant? 
 mydocalm
platiphylline
baralgin
spasmalgon

Specify a common cause of pain at the lumbar level. 
 osteochondrosis
tumors
multiple myeloma
injuries

To reduce the progression of degenerative changes in intervertebral discs, is it necessary to use? 
 Chondroprotectors
Biostimulants
B vitamins
Dehydrating

The patient complains of attacks of pain in the right side of the face. The pain occurs suddenly and is paroxysmal in nature, the attack lasts 10-12 seconds. Pain occurs during talking, chewing, and swallowing. Between attacks there is pain on palpation of the infraorbital point on the right. What's affected? 
 II branch of the trigeminal nerve on the right
I branch of the trigeminal nerve on the left
II branch of the trigeminal nerve on the right
I branch of the trigeminal nerve on the left

Which of the following drugs is a chondroprotector? 
 teraflex
platiphylline
baralgin
spasmalgon

In what dose is benzylpenicillin prescribed as etiotropic therapy in the treatment of purulent meningitis? 
 300 thousand units per kg of patient weight
500 thousand units per kg of patient weight
100 thousand units per kg of patient weight
1000 thousand units per kg of patient weight

Indicate the most typical course of tuberculous meningitis. 
 subacute
acute
chronic
recurrent

Indicate which arachnoiditis causes sharp decline in vision 
 opto-chiasmal
pontocerebellar angle
posterior cranial fossa
basal

Where are patients with meningococcal meningitis treated? 
 in the infectious diseases department
in the neurological department
in the intensive care ward of the neurological department
in the intensive care ward of the somatic department

What meningitis is characterized by a decrease in glucose and chlorides in the cerebrospinal fluid? 
 tuberculous
syphilitic
meningococcal
pneumococcal

Criteria for discontinuing antibiotics in the treatment of purulent meningitis? 
 cytosis less than 100 cells, 75% lymphocytes
cytosis less than 200 cells, 75% neutrophils
cytosis less than 150 cells, 25% lymphocytes
cytosis less than 10 cells, 50% neutrophils

Treatment of purulent meningitis with an unknown pathogen begins with? 
 penicillin
ampioxa
chloramphenicol
gentamicin

What are the characteristic changes in the cerebrospinal fluid during meningococcal meningitis? 
 neutrophilic pleocytosis
lymphocytic pleocytosis
fibrin film formation
xanthochrome liquor

Most often, at the onset of secondary purulent meningitis, meningeal symptoms occur 
 neck muscle stiffness
zygomatic ankylosing spondylitis phenomenon
Kernig's sign
Brudzinski's sign, superior

Frequent residual defects after tuberculous meningitis in children? 
 oculomotor disorders
deafness
hemiparesis
neuroendocrine disorders.

What type of meningitis causes purulent changes in the cerebrospinal fluid? 
 meningococcal
flu-like
herpetic
syphilitic

What meningitis causes serous changes in the cerebrospinal fluid? 
 tuberculous
streptococcal
staphylococcal
pneumococcal

Which meningitis is bacterial in etiology? 
 meningococcal epidemic meningitis
enteroviral
herpetic
lymphocytic choriomeningitis

Which meningitis is viral in etiology? 
 herpetic meningitis
meningococcal epidemic meningitis
pneumococcal meningitis
streptococcal meningitis

In what parts of the nervous system do changes predominate in encephalitis lethargica? 
 subcortical nuclei
cortex
inner capsule
medulla

Indicate what form of urination disorder can occur with transverse lesions of the spinal cord in the cervical region? 
 Urinary retention
Paradoxical urinary incontinence
Hematuria
True urinary incontinence

The patient has central tetraparesis, tetraanesthesia, stool and urine retention. What is your diagnosis? 
 Upper cervical myelitis
Lower cervical myelitis
Thoracic myelitis
Meningoencephalitis

At what localization of the inflammatory process in the spinal cord does mixed tetraparesis develop (spastic in the legs, flaccid in the arms), urinary and fecal retention? 
 cervical thickening
thoracic region
lumbar enlargement
cone medullaris

At what localization of the inflammatory process in the spinal cord are spastic tetraparesis, tetraanesthesia, urinary and fecal retention possible? 
 cervical region
thoracic region
lumbar enlargemente
cone medularis

Which of the following diseases should be differentiated? diagnosis of myelitis affecting the thoracic spinal cord? 
Strumpel's spastic paraplegia
Friedreich's ataxia
Charcot-Marie neural amyotrophy
Erb's myopathy

The middle layer of the spinal cord is called? 
arachnoid
soft
vascular
hard

Where is cerebrospinal fluid produced? 
In the ventricles of the brain
In the subarachnoid space
Between the layers of the dura mater
In the sinuses of the brain


