The following ways of penetration of the pathogen into the human body are possible:
all listed above
aerogenic
alimentary
transplacental center

The occurrence of tuberculosis disease is determined by the following conditions, EXCEPT:
phagocytosis of the pathogen by tissue or alveolar microphages with lysis or release from the body of contact with the pathogen
its penetration into the tissues
fixation in certain organs with the appearance of a focus of inflammation in them
persistence of the pathogen in a weakened body

The following types of Mycobacterium tuberculosis cause diseases, EXCEPT:
photochromogenic properties
bullish type
bird type
human type

Gas exchange in the lungs is carried out:
in the alveolus
in the acinus of the lungs
in the lung parenchyma
in the lung lobe

For the development of tuberculosis, such basic links are needed as:
Source of infection, transmission mechanism, susceptible organism
Intermediate host, pathogen, final host
Susceptible organism, intermediate host, pathogen
Transmission mechanism, pathogen, final host

Atypical MBTs include:
s.aureus
m.avium
m.tuberculosis
m.africanum

Social factors that contribute to the spread of tuberculosis include:
all of the above
poor living conditions
financial insecurity
low intellectual level

Epithelioid and giant cell granuloma with Langhans cells is observed:
for tuberculosis, sarcoidosis, cancer, berylliosis and some other diseases
only for tuberculosis
for tuberculosis and sarcoidosis
only with beryliosis

Complaints from a TB patient:
They are not specific and do not allow us to judge the nature of the disease with confidence
Specific to this disease and allow them to make a differential diagnosis with another lung pathology
They have specific features and allow you to suspect tuberculosis of the respiratory system
There is no correct answer

Complaints of a patient with respiratory tuberculosis:
They are very subjective and do not reflect the actual clinical picture of the disease
Only partially display the actual clinic and symptoms of the disease
Objectively and sufficiently reflect the actual clinic of the disease
Objectively and subjectively reflect the clinical picture of the disease

The causative agent of tuberculosis belongs to the type:
bacteria
fungus
treponemas
viruses

Caseous necrosisis:
as a rule, it is observed in tuberculosis, rarely occurs in other pathologies
it is not a specific tissue reaction for tuberculosis, it occurs in cancer, sarcoidosis and some other diseases
specific to tuberculosis, which is not found in other diseases
there is no correct answer

How often is there sweating in tuberculosis?
At night.
During physical exertion.
With psychoemotional stress.
In case of overheating.

Which of the listed phases for the characterization of the tuberculosis process does not exist in the classification of tuberculosis?
cavern formation
breakup
seeding
compaction

What information is needed when interviewing a patient with suspected pulmonary tuberculosis?
Contact with a tuberculosis patient.
Family status of the patient.
Profession.
Material and living conditions of life.

What is the most typical shape of the chest in a TB patient?
Asthenic.
Hypersthenic.
Rickety.
Emphysematous.

What biochemical components of MBT determine their resistance to acids and alcohols?
Lipids.
Squirrels.
Carbohydrates.
Polysaccharides.

Which TB patients are more likely to explain weight loss?
Loss of appetite.
They can't explain it, because their appetite and eating habits are still normal.
Perversion of taste, disgust for certain types of food.
Save on food.

What data should not include the classification of any disease according to ICD-10?
Forecast.
The clinical form of the disease.
Localization of the lesion.
Complications.

What data do not matter when making a diagnosis for tuberculosis?
the path of infection.
presence or absence of destruction.
presence or absence of bacterial excretion.
resistance of mycobacteria.

Which of the diseases in the anamnesis increases the risk of tuberculosis?
Peptic ulcer of the stomach.
Coronary heart disease.
Neurodermatitis.
Deforming osteoarthritis.

Which of the listed life history data are a risk factor for tuberculosis?
Illegal labor migration.
Vaccination against hepatitis B.
Stay in Western Europe less than 3 years ago.
Change of profession to a more qualified one.

What symptoms belong to the "thoracic" symptoms of pulmonary tuberculosis?
Hemoptysis, shortness of breath, chest pain, cough, sputum production.
Low-grade fever, cough, headache, shortness of breath, general weakness.
Heart pain, low-grade fever, cough, hemoptysis, shortness of breath.
Pain in the liver, shortness of breath, cough, hemoptysis, subfebrility.

Which of these ways is tuberculosis transmitted in the vast majority of cases (up to 95%)?
aerogenic (airborne, dusty)
contact information (direct, indirect)
intrauterine
hereditary

What phases characterize the progression of tuberculosis?
infiltration, decay, and contamination.
resorption, compaction, scarring.
inlay, mineralization, and obyzystvlenie.
hyperemia, exudation, resorption.

What is the nature of contact with a bacterial excretor that has the greatest epidemic danger?
family (permanent, long-term)
apartment type
periodic (repeated)
random (one-time, "street")

Which medical history is more typical for pulmonary tuberculosis?
Considers himself ill for several months.
Having been acutely ill three days ago, my condition has at times improved somewhat.
Considers himself ill "all his life", has been repeatedly examined without results.
Poor health marks every fourth day.

Which type of MBT is most pathogenic to humans?
М. tuberculosis.
M. africanum.
M. avium.
M. bovinus.

Which of the listed morphological elements is specific for tuberculosis?
caseoz
fibroblasts
endothelial cells
plasmocytic cells

What is the most informative phenomenon in auscultation of a patient with pulmonary tuberculosis?
Local wheezing on the tops of the lungs.
Scattered dry wheezes.
Intermittent dry and wet wheezing in the root zone.
A "dumb" lung.

What is the usual temperature curve in tuberculosis?
Wrong one.
One-day trip.
Hectic.
Three-day trip.

In what year Robert Koch discovered the causative agent of tuberculosis:
1882
1865
1887
1885

Who synthesized streptomycin?
With. As a Waxman
By Fox
C.Forlanini
Abre

Localization of lymph nodes in the mediastinum:
central
front window
rear window
internal

M. tuberculosis is:
The bacterium
Virus
Parasite
Fungus

MBTs are most often in the form of:
chopsticks
grainy
coca-cola
threadlike

MBT is retained in water:
up to 5 months
up to 2 months
up to 24 hours
there is no correct answer

Mycobacterium tuberculosis :
Aerobic rides
Anaerobami
Saprophytes
Anaerobes, saprophytes

Mycobacterium tuberculosis is resistant to :
Alcohol, alkali, acid
Alkali, acid
Alcohol, benzene, acid
Benzene, acid, and alkali

The following pathways of pathogen penetration into the human body are possible:
all listed above
aerogenic
alimentary
transplacental center

What do patients complain about with a detailed clinical picture of tuberculosis, regardless of the localization of the process?
Weakness, sweating, weight loss, elevated body temperature.
Shortness of breath when the weather changes.
Violation of sensitivity, "crawling ants" in the limbs.
Short-term impairment of consciousness.

The most likely distance in case of MBT infection by droplets.
Up to 1.5m
Up to 3.5 m
Up to 4.5 m
Up to 6 m

The most common mechanism of transmission of tuberculosis bacillus is:
air-drop mode
fecal-oral
percutaneous
transplacental center

Regardless of the routes of entry of tuberculosis infection into the body, people are more likely to be affected by tuberculosis:
respiratory organs
gastrointestinal tract
excretory organs
hematopoietic organs

Under the “mask” of what disease can tuberculosis occur in adults?
Pneumonia
Myocarditis
Tonsillitis
Bronchial asthma

Prevention of human tuberculosis infection from animals includes:
all of the above
permanent bacteriological control
for milk and dairy products
constant bacteriological control of meat from slaughtered animals

The dulling of percussion sound is observed when:
Presence of inflammatory infiltration of lung tissue
Emphysema of the lungs
All answers are incorrect
with spontaneous pneumothorax

Contact penetration of Mycobacterium tuberculosis through intact skin:
impossible
perhaps
possible under special conditions
possible with high virulence of the pathogen

MBT multiplication occurs frequently:
by simple division
budding
spore formation
asexually

Reproduction of MBT occurs by simple division, the full cycle lasts:
24 hours
72 hours
48 hours
6-21 hours

Among infectious diseases, tuberculosis, as a cause that led to a fatal result, takes the highest place in the world:
1st place
3rd place
5th place
6th place

Family history is of interest to the phthisiatrician from the point of view of:
both contact with a relative with tuberculosis and a family tendency to bronchopulmonary diseases
presence or absence of contact with relatives with a contagious form of tuberculosis
family predisposition to this infectious disease
not of interest to a phthisiatrician

Complaints from a TB patient:
they are not specific and do not allow us to judge the nature of the disease with confidence
they are specific for this disease and allow them to make a differential diagnosis with another lung pathology.
they have specific features and allow you to suspect tuberculosis of the respiratory system
there is no correct answer

Modern Russian classification of tuberculosis:
on the clinical and radiological principle on the clinical principle
based on the pathogenetic principle
based on the morphological principle
there is no correct answer

Tuberculosis of the respiratory system is more common:
subacute onset of the disease
acute onset of the disease
asymptomatic onset of the disease
mainly acute and subacute onset of the disease

In clinical practice, it is most often observed:
aerogenic pathway of infection
alimentary route of infection
transplacental route of infection
contact route of infection

A 46-year-old man released 200 ml of bright red foamy blood through his mouth while coughing. What organ can cause such bleeding?
Lungs
Stomach
Gums
Nasopharynx

Patient's living conditions:
significant impact on the risk of developing tuberculosis and on the subsequent course of the infectious process
they do not significantly affect the risk of developing tuberculosis and the subsequent course of the infectious process
only some influence on the risk of developing tuberculosis and very little influence on its course
It has a significant impact on the risk of developing tuberculosis and does not affect the subsequent course of the infectious process at all

The following animal species are often affected by tuberculosis and can become a source of human infection:
large-horned cattle
cats and dogs
poultry and cattle
birds

What research should be carried out when detecting decay cavities in the lungs of patients with suspected tuberculosis?
run all
multiple sputum tests for the presence of MBT.
Tomography of the chest organs
Bronchoscopy with the collection of material for cytological and histological tests.

What is the nature of sputum in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis?
Muco-watery, odorless, 10-50 ml per day.
Purulent with a sharp unpleasant smell, rusty color, up to 500 ml.
Purulent, odorless, up to 300 ml.
Mucopurulent, 50-100 ml.

What are the most typical changes in the number of white blood cells in uncomplicated tuberculosis?
moderate leukocytosis with a small rod-shaped shift.
changes are not typical
Leukopenia.
both leukopenia and leukocytosis are possible.

What mycobacteria cause mycobacteriosis?
Atypical mycobacteria.
L-forms of mycobacteria.
М. tuberculosis.
Acid-resistant saprophytes.

Which bacterial separator is considered massive?
In which MBT is found by simple bacterioscopy of 10 or more in the field of vision.
Which MBTs have no more than 20 colonies found by seeding.
Which MBTs are found by seeding no more than 10 colonies.
any bacterial separator that is registered.

Angiopulmonography is used to diagnose:
Malformations of the lungs
Lung abscess
Pneumonia
Bronchiectatic disease

2+ number of colonies on solid nutrient media:
100- 200
10- 20
20- 30
30- 40

Tomography of the roots of the lungs and mediastinum provides information on:
all answers are correct
about the state of the lungs and mediastinum without getting a direct projection
about the condition of the bronchi of the 6th segment and the middle lobe
about the condition of large bronchi

A 37-year-old patient. He has been suffering from cirrhotic tuberculosis of the upper lobe of the right lung for 10 years. The patient is being prepared for surgery. It is necessary to determine the mobility of the lower edge of the lungs. What method of X-ray examination is used for this purpose?
X-ray examination
A CT scan.
Bronchography.
An MRI scan.

A 45-year-old patient. He is being treated in an antitubercular dispensary for a relapse of tuberculosis of the left lung (infiltrative tuberculosis). In the sputum of the patient, MBT is detected, although destructive changes are not detected on the X-ray survey. What radiological method of examination should be performed for the patient to identify the source of bacterial infection?
A CT scan.
Bronchography.
Sighting radiography.
X-ray examination.

Bronchoscopy in patients with tuberculosis is indicated:
in all of these cases
during preoperative examination of patients
with tuberculous pleurisy and tuberculosis of the intrathoracic lymph nodes
with bacterial release from a focus of unclear localization

Where is tuberculin administered in the Mantoux test with 2 TE PPD-L?
Inner surface of the middle third of the forearm.
Between the upper and middle third of the outer surface of the shoulder.
Above the shoulder blade.
Upper third of the inner surface of the forearm.

What group of methods for diagnosing tuberculosis in adults includes tuberculin diagnostics?
additional
required data
identification
selection process

The pathogenesis of bronchial patency disorders is based on:
all of the above
obturation of the bronchial lumen with caseous masses
aspiration of caseous masses
frequent compression of the bronchus from the outside by enlarged lymph nodes

Administration of 2 TE PPD-L may cause a child to:
none of the immediate allergic reactions listed below
exacerbation of the tuberculosis process
complications
morbidity rate

The leading method for the diagnosis of peripheral lymph node tuberculosis:
histological analysis
cytological
immunological
bronchoscopic

Probable cause of the presence of fluid in the decay cavity in a patient with pulmonary tuberculosis:
violation of the outflow of secretions from the cavity through a violation of the patency of the bronchi, which drain the cavern
joining of a non-specific infection
viscous nature of the secretion in the cavity
joining a viral infection

The protocol of X-ray examination is:
conclusion
by diagnosis
brief morphological characteristics of the pathological process
all answers are correct

Intra-thoracic lymph nodes become available for X-ray diagnostics:
with all the listed changes
with significant hyperplasia
when calcium salts are deposited
with a bilateral lesion

Focal reaction after subcutaneous administration of tuberculin is associated with:
with a toxic-allergic perifocal reaction around the focus of specific inflammation, which is accompanied by latent activity
with reactivation of a specific process and the emergence of an infiltrative outbreak
with the above mechanisms
with an immunological reaction

The most reliable methods for identifying atypical mycobacteria are:
cultural methods
biological methods
imunological methods
immunohistochemical properties

For timely detection of tuberculosis, it is necessary to carry out:
all of the above
tuberculosis screening of patients in general and specialized medical institutions
regular and high-quality screening of TB risk groups
sanitary and educational work with the population

Additional methods of X-ray examination for diseases of the respiratory system include all of the following, except:
radiographs and tomographs
fluorography and radioscopy
angiography
computed tomography

The main (standard) methods of X-ray examination for diseases of the respiratory system include all of the following, except:
angiography
x-rays in direct projection
radiographs in the lateral projection
direct projection tomography scans

The main methods of X-ray examination for diseases of the respiratory system include all of the following, except:
pleurography
fluorography
radiographs in the lateral projection
direct projection tomography scans

At what age are fluorographic examinations performed?
15 years old.
5 years old.
7 years.
14 years.

What frequency should be used to examine fluorographic individuals who are at risk for tuberculosis?
Once a year
Twice a year
Every two years
Once for three years

In order to detect MBT, the patient was given sputum culture on a solid medium. What does the appearance of a colony indicate on the 3rd day after sowing?
Growth of non-specific microflora.
Growth of highly virulent mycobacteria.
Growth of atypical mycobacteria.
Growth of L-forms of mycobacteria.

Using laterography, you can get the following information:
about the presence of free fluid in the pleural cavity
about the extent of fluid precipitation in the pleural cavity
about the condition of large bronchi
there is no correct answer

The purpose of clinical tuberculin diagnostics in children:
assessment of the degree of specificity of sensitization as a criterion for the activity of tuberculosis infection in the body
detection of tuberculosis process activity
differential diagnosis of tuberculosis and post-neumanic residual changes
monitoring the effectiveness of treatment

Infection with tuberculosis in case of an error during vaccination or infection with non-sterile instruments:
possible
not possible
possible under special conditions
possible with high virulence of the pathogen

Changes in mycobacterium tuberculosis occur under the influence of:
all of the above
vaccinations
chemoprophylaxis measures
chemotherapy treatments

Which X-ray method is more appropriate to start an additional examination, if during a preventive fluorographic examination focal shadows are found in the first and second segments of the lungs?
Computed tomography.
Survey radiography.
Targeted radiography.
X-ray examinations.

Many species of mycobacteria are known. Which of the listed types of MBT is most pathogenic for humans?
M. tuberculosis
M. bovis
M. xenori
M. intracellularae.

Isolated bronchial tuberculosis should be confirmed by:
detection of mycobacteria, histologically
bronchoscopy, computed tomography
cytologically
overview radiography

Tuberculosis infection and disease are more likely to occur in contact with a bacterial excretor:
children of the first two years of life
children under 10-11 years and adolescents (12-16 years)
young people under 39 years of age
elderly people (60 years and older)

The main (standard) methods of X-ray examination for diseases of the respiratory system include all of the following, except:
bronchography
radiography in direct projection
radiography in the lateral projection
direct projection tomography

Direct radiological signs of the decay cavity include:
The presence of a ring-shaped shadow with a continuous closed contour in two mutually perpendicular projections and the absence of a pulmonary pattern in the ring-shaped shadow on the tomography section.
Presence of a ring-shaped shadow with a continuous closed contour in two mutually perpendicular projections
Presence of the shadow of the draining bronchus visualization of the pulmonary pattern in the ring-shaped shadow on the tomography section
Presence of foci of bronchogenic dropout

A child is referred to a phthisiatrician for consultation with the conclusion: doubtful reaction to tuberculin. What do you hope to see when examining the forearm skin at the site of tuberculin injection?
Hyperemia of any size or papule 2 - 4 mm in size.
Papule larger than 5 mm.
The papule is larger than 17 mm.
A papule larger than 5 mm with a vesicle in the center.

Caseous necrosis:
it is not a specific tissue reaction for tuberculosis, it occurs in cancer, sarcoidosis and some other diseases
specific to tuberculosis, it is not found in other diseases
as a rule, it is observed in tuberculosis, rarely occurs in other pathologies
all answers are correct

Which of the tuberculin tests is more informative for determining the activity of the tuberculosis process?
Koch and its modifications
Graduated Pirke
Mantoux with 2 TE
Mantoux with 5 TE

Which of the tuberculin tests is most informative for establishing tuberculosis infection?
Mantoux with 2 TE
graduated Pirke
Pirke
BCG

What is the method of provoking wheezing in patients with tuberculosis?
Take a deep breath after a slight cough.
Deep breathing.
Breathing through the nose.
Calm breathing.

What sample is used in mass examinations of children and adolescents for tuberculosis infection?
Mantoux test with 2 TE PPD-L.
The Koch test.
Mantoux test with 100 TE PPD-L.
Graduated skin test.

What kind of tuberculin test should be used in healthy individuals for mass tuberculin diagnostics:
Mantoux with 2 TE
Mantoux with 5 TE
Koch
graduated Pirke

Which of the listed factors or diseases can increase sensitivity to tuberculin?
Bronchial asthma.
Fasting
Senile age.
Treatment with corticosteroids.

What are the most typical changes in the number of white blood cells in uncomplicated tuberculosis?
Moderate leukocytosis with a small rod-shaped shift.
Severe leukocytosis, with a significant rod-shaped shift, leukemoid reaction.
The changes are not typical.
Both leukopenia and leukocytosis are possible

What are the criteria for optimal radiographic rigidity?
The X-ray clearly shows the first three or four thoracic vertebrae.
The X-ray clearly shows the first six to eight thoracic vertebrae.
The X-ray clearly shows the ribs.
The X-ray clearly shows the sternum.

What are the contraindications for setting up a Mantoux test with 2 TE PPD-L?
The child attends a team that is currently quarantined for viral hepatitis.
The child belongs to a group that often suffers from acute respiratory viral infections.
The child was vaccinated against polio 6 months ago.
A history of hyperergic reaction to the Mantoux test with 2 TE PPD-L.

What radiological signs strongly indicate the activity of focal tuberculosis?
Low-intensity foci with indistinct contours
Moderate intensity foci with clear external contours
A group of foci of different sizes and high intensity
Moderate intensity foci with limited pneumosclerosis

What are the most characteristic changes in urine in pulmonary tuberculosis, in which there are pronounced phenomena of intoxication?
Moderate leukocyturia, single red blood cells.
Significant proteinuria without changes in the number of white blood cells, macrohematuria.
Pyuria, cylindruria, microhematuria.
total macrohematuria with pain syndrome.

What are the terms of appearance of mycobacterium tuberculosis growth on solid nutrient media?
3-4 weeks.
Day 7-11.
10 months.
4 months.

What tests are not considered fast when determining MBT in sputum:
seeding on the Levenshtein-Jensen medium
The DNA chip
PCR
BACTEC

What drug and dose of tuberculin are used for conducting a Mantoux test for mass tuberculindiagnostics?
PPD-L in standard dilution with a dose of 2 TE.
Purified dry tuberculin in a dose of 2 TE.
PPD-L in standard dilution with a dose of 10 TE.
PPD-L in standard dilution with a dose of 5 TE.

What type of reaction usually occurs during a Mantoux test in patients with tuberculosis?
local
general and focal
focal point
general

Which of these diseases can reduce the body's sensitivity to tuberculin?
Measles.
Catarrhal otitis media.
Allergic rhinitis.
Hypertension.

What research should be carried out when detecting decay cavities in the lungs of patients with suspected tuberculosis?
You need to complete all the marked studies.
Multiple sputum tests for the presence of MBT.
Bronchoscopy with the collection of material for cytological and histological tests.
Cytological examination of sputum.

What kind of formation can be seen on the skin of the forearm with a positive reaction to tuberculin c 2 TE?
infiltrate size 5-17 mm
infiltrate with a vesicle in the center.
hyperemia over 5 mm
infiltrate over 17 mm in size

What auscultation phenomenon is more common in patients with tuberculosis in the decay phase?
sonorous localized, wet wheezing in the projection of the destruction cavity
amphoric breathing
squeak noise
vesicular respiration

Which bacterial separator is considered massive?
In which MBT is found by simple bacterioscopy of 10 or more in the field of vision.
In which MBT is found by seeding no more than 20 colonies.
Which MBTs are found by seeding no more than 10 colonies.
A registered bacterial separator.

Which of the components belongs to the etiological diagnosis of tuberculosis?
Detection of MBT in the pathological material.
Identification of characteristic changes in the blood.
Identification of characteristic changes in the immune status.
Detection of tuberculosis infection.

Which of the listed methods of respiratory examination is not radiological?
Bronchoscopy.
Computed tomography.
X-ray examination.
Bronchography.

Which of the tuberculins has more standard and specific properties?
PPD-L (diluted, ready-to-use)
sensitins
ATK diluted for therapeutic use
ATK 100%

Which of the physical examination methods is the most informative for focal tuberculosis?
none at all
inspection
palpation
percussion

What is the most sensitive and specific method for detecting TB?
PCR.
Direct microscopy.
Cultural research.
ELISA.

What is the cheapest method for identifying MBTs?
Direct microscopy.
Cultural research.
Biological sample.
ELISA.

What method of studying bacterial excretion is not used in the formulation of the diagnosis according to the current classification?
Biological.
Microscopic.
Cultural.
Study of resistance to drugs of the second series.

What research method should be used to confirm the presence of bronchiectasis?
Bronchography.
Radiography.
Fistulography.
A CT scan.

What is the most effective method for diagnosing a lymphobronchial fistula?
fistulography
tomography
fluorography
bronchography

What staining method is used to identify MBTs?
According to Zil-Nielsen.
By Gram.
According to Romanovsky-Giems.
Methylene blue.

What method can determine the sensitivity of mycobacteria to anti-tuberculosis drugs?
Bacteriological.
Bacterioscopic.
PCR.
Biological.

Which method provides the most detailed information about the structure and uniformity of the shadow in the lungs?
Computed tomography.
Bronchoscopy.
Targeted radiography.
X-ray examination.

What method is more appropriate to use to monitor the dynamics of treatment effectiveness in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis?
Radiography.
X-ray cymography.
Fluorography.
X-ray examination.

What is the main method for timely detection of tuberculosis in children?
Tuberculin diagnostics.
Fluorography.
Radiography.
Tomography.

What is the most effective method for clarifying the localization of the shadow in the thickness of the lung tissue and its relationship with the surrounding tissues (ribs, spine, etc.)?
Computed tomography.
Radiography.
Fluorography.
Bronchography.

What radiological method is used for screening the population to detect tuberculosis of the respiratory system?
Fluorography.
Computed tomography.
X-ray examination.
Bronchography.

What reaction for the Mantoux test with 2 TE PPD-L should be considered positive?
Papule with a diameter of 5 mm or more.
Hyperemia of any size without papule formation.
Papule with a diameter of 12 mm with the presence ofvesiculonecrotic reaction.
Papule 2-4 mm in diameter

What reaction for the Mantoux test with 2 TE PPD-L should be considered doubtful?
Papule 2-4 mm in diameter or just hyperemia of any size.
Complete absence of papules.
Papule with a diameter of 5 mm
Papule of any size with the presence of vesicles, necrosis, lymphangitis.

Multiplicity of sputum tests in cases of suspected pulmonary tuberculosis in the general medical network:
3 smears
2 smears and 2 seeding
3 smears and 3 seeding
3 smears and 1 seeding

The 3+bacteriovision criterion:
10-100 microorganisms in 20 fields of view
1-5 microorganisms in 100 fields of view
5-9 microorganisms in 100 fields of view
a single colony in 100 fields of view

Criterion of mycobacterium excretion 1+:
only 10-99 microorganisms in 100 fields of view
1-2 microorganisms in 100 fields of view
1-10 microorganisms in 100 fields of view
microorganisms in 100 fields of view

Who is involved in conducting screening of tuberculin diagnostics?
general medical network.
Only TB facilities.
Only the sanitary and epidemiological service.
The specialist doctor that the child is registered with.

The minimum number of microbial cells in 1 ml of MBT \ culture material:
20 - 100
1 - 2
200 - 300
1000 – 10000

On the identification of what changes in the biopsy is the histological confirmation of the tuberculous nature of inflammation based?
Pirogov-Langhans cells, caseous necrosis.
cells of foreign bodies, fibroblasts.
proliferation of lymphocytes and LEcells.
proliferation of low-differentiated cells.

What do patients complain about with a detailed clinical picture of tuberculosis, regardless of the localization of the process?
Weakness, sweating, weight loss, elevated body temperature.
attacks of stuffiness when the weather changes.
impaired consciousness.
Headache, abdominal pain with no clear localization.

The following is normally tapped above the trachea:
bronchial respiration
vesicular respiration
hard breathing
amphoric breathing

The most informative immunological test for the differential diagnosis of tuberculosis and sarcoidosis:
tuberculin reactions
natural antibody content
the level of immune complexes that are circulating
content of anti-pulmonary antibodies

Mycobacteria are most often found in all the listed types of material obtained from a tuberculosis patient, EXCEPT for:
blood
of pleural fluid
sputum production
flushing waters of the bronchi

The most reliable method of examination for detecting mycobacteria:
culture method
luminescent microscopy
bacterioscopy
biochemical research

Are there any MBTs in tuberculin (which ones)?
not found
the dead
weakened ones
L-forms

Optimal MBT growth in the external environment at t:
37-38°C
42-43°C
34-35°C
46-47°C

The weakening of voice tremor is observed when:
For central lung cancer, exudative pleurisy
cirrhosis of the lungs, croup pneumonia
for pneumonia
with atelectasis
