Contraindication for retrograde ureteropyelography is:
acute urethritis
BPH
macrohematuria 
hypertension 

The most characteristic symptoms of acute orchitis are:
pain and enlargement of the testicle, swelling and hyperemia of the scrotum
testicular pain, dysuria, fever, pyuria, hematuria
testicular pain, pyuria, hematuria, chills
testicular enlargement, dysuria, nocturia, fever 

Orchitis is:
inflammation of the testicle
inflammation of the seminal vesicle
inflammation of the epididymis
inflammation of the vas deferens

In elderly males with purulent orchitis, the following is indicated:
orchiectomy
cavernotomy
epididimotomy
funiculotomy with scrotal drainage

In order to differentiate orchitis from hydrocele of the testicular membranes, the following examination should be performed:
diaphanoscopy
chromocystoscopy
vesiculography
cystostoscopy

Indications for surgical treatment of acute nonspecific orchoepididymitis:
accumulation of pus around epididymis
high fever for two days 
pyuria and proteinuria 
severe leukocytosis 

Contraindications to retrograde cystography is:
acute urethritis
acute cholecystitis 
acute pyelonephritis 
chronic epididymitis

Which bacterial flora is more commonly cause of acute nonspecific epididymitis?
Escherichia coli
Klebsiela pneumoniae
Pseudomonas aeruginosa 
Proteus mirabilis

Most often, the primary focus of specific epididymitis is located in:
tail of the epididymis
head of the epididymis 
body of the epididymis
testicles

The often causative agent of non-specific orchiepididymitis is following:
bacteria 
chlamydia 
viruses 
viruses, mycoplasmas

Characteristic symptoms of acute epididymitis are:
fever, chills, enlargement and sharp pain in the epididymis
hematuria, dysuria, enlargement of the epididymis
dysuria, an increase in the size of the epididymis
fever up to 38-39°C, pain in the epididymis, hematuria

In acute purulent epididymitis, the following is indicated:
surgical treatment
massive antibiotic therapy
puncture of the epididymis and conservative treatment
strict bed regime, cold on the scrotum

Management of patient with acute non-specific orchitis in OPD (outpatient department):
immediate hospitalization  
novocaine blockade and outpatient treatment 
planned hospitalization
conservative treatment at home

Which scrotal pathology has similar symptoms as chronic epididymitis?
varicocele 
tuberculosis of testis
prostatitis
hydrocele

The characteristic symptoms of acute urethritis are all of the mentioned, except:
hematuria and swelling of the skin of the scrotum 
pain while urinating
purulent discharge from the urethra 
swelling of the external opening of the urethra 

Diagnosis of urethritis is based on all of the mentioned, except:
complete blood count (CBC) and prostate secretions 
results of the study of the sediment of the first portion of urine 
clinical history
culture and microscopy of purulent urethral discharge

Urethroscopy is indicated for:
chronic urethritis 
torpid course of urethritis 
latent course of urethritis 
acute course of urethritis

Common complications of chronic urethritis include all of the following, except:
paraproctitis 
epididymitis 
lesions of the urethral glands 
prostatitis

The most likely metastatic complications of chlamydial urethritis are:
arthritis 
colitis
myocarditis 
thyroiditis

Note the main route of infection in epididymitis.
reflux of infected urine from the urethra via vas deferens
hematogenous
lymphogenous
migration from prostate gland

Bilateral epididymitis is the most common cause of:
male infertility
chronic urethritis
nongonococcal urethritis
acute prostatitis

Which of these tests is used in the diagnosing of acute epididymitis?
ultrasound of the scrotum
ultrasound of the kidneys, ureters and bladder
urethrocystoscopy
doppler scan of scrotum

Most informative method for differential diagnosis between acute epididymitis and testicular tumor?
ultrasound of the scrotum
computed tomography 
scrotal organs doppler scan
diaphanoscopy

Note the main route of infection in urethritis.
contact (sexual contact)
hematogenous
lymphogenous
descending from the upper urinary tract

Which of the research methods is the leading one in the differential diagnosis of different types of bacterial urethritis? 
bacterioscopic examination of urethral discharge
instrumental examinations of the urethra
clinical urine and blood tests
objective inspection

The medication of choice in the treatment of chlamydial urethritis is:
Azitromycin
Ampicillin
Diflucan
Metronidazole

The medication of choice in the treatment of urethritis caused by Trichomonas vaginalis is:
Metronidazole
Carbenicillin
Diflucan
Azitromycin
 
The medication of choice in the treatment of fungal urethritis is:
Diflucan
Ciprofloxacin
Carbenicillin
Azitromycin

Symptoms of acute orchitis:
swelling and pain of the scrotum					
low-grade fever				
hemospermia						
hyperthermia

Treatment tactics for acute cystitis:
etiotropic antibacterial and antiviral therapy 
prescribing diet and diuretics 
prescribing analgesics and diuretics 
presacral novocaine blockade and antispasmodics 

Contraindication to a permanent urethral catheter in case of acute urinary retention is:
acute prostatitis 
pyelonephritis 
bladder tumor 
cystitis 

The most severe form of cystitis is:
interstitial 
chemical
echinococosis of the bladder 
haemorrhagic

The leading complication of cystitis is:
ascending chronic pyelonephritis 
thrombophlebitis of the lower extremities 
paracistitis 
hemorrhoids

Cystoscopic picture of acute catarrhal cystitis:
moderate edema, focal mucosal hyperemia 
submucosal hemorrhage 
polypous growths of the mucosa
mucosal vasodilation 

Common complications of chronic urethritis include all of the following, except:
paraproctitis 
prostatitis 
epididymitis 
lesions of the urethral glands 

What is the definition of urolithiasis?
formation of urinary tract stones as a result of metabolic disorders 
disorders of phosphorus-calcium metabolism 
disorders of water-electrolytes metabolism 
hyperthyroidism leads to the formation of stones

What is the etiology of urolithiasis?
tubulopathies and enzymopathies, urinary tract abnormalities
diseases of the prostate gland
decreased thyroid function
infectious and allergic disease

Classification of kidney and urinary tract stones…
depends on location, quantity and composition
depends on the size and strength of the stone structure
depends on the volume of germination into the renal calyxes
depends on the consistency and color of the stones

Classification of urinary stones by localisation?
kidney stones, pelvis stones, ureteral stones, bladder stones, urethral stones 
bladder stones, staghorn stones, urates, phosphates, oxalates
ureteral stones, multiple urethral stones, protein, mixed 
X-ray negative, kidney, gallbladder, bladder stones

Classification by size and number of urinary stones?
microliths, staghorn, single or multiple stones
single and multiple stones, urethral stones
staghorn, protein, oxalate stones
urate, phosphate, oxalate, carbonate and cystine stones

Classification of urinary stones by composition?
uric acid, phosphate, oxalate, carbonate, cystine, xanthine 
oxalate, creatinine, cholesterol, urate stones
phosphate, calcium, mucopolysaccharide stones
urate, calcium, phosphate, carbonate, protein

What are the main symptoms of kidney stones?
pain in the flank area, pathological changes in urine, calcuria
pain, dysuria, vomiting
pain, hematuria, hyperthermia
pain, stranguria, insomnia

Determine the composition of a stone by its appearance?
oxalates are hard, dark gray in color, with spikes
cystine stones - round, soft, whitish in color, smooth 
urates - shapeless, black in color, with a firm consistency
cholesterol stones are yellowish-white, rounded, soft, smooth 

What is renal colic?
sudden urodynamic disturbance in the upper urinary tract
severe low back pain, pyuria, dysuria
persistent pain in the lumbar region, hematuria, vomiting
sudden impaired urinary secretion by the kidneys, hematuria

Indicate the clinical signs of renal colic?
severe pain in the lumbar region, anxiety, nausea, vomiting
pain in the lumbar region, vomiting, inability to bend
lumbar pain, flatulence, dysuria
radiation of pain from the lumbar region to the shoulders, lack of appetite

What are the anatomical and morphological changes in the kidneys that contribute to the formation of kidney stones?
intrarenal pelvis and urodynamic disorders
chronic glomerulonephritis
venous congestion
extrarenal pelvis

In case of an alkaline reaction of urine following type of stones may form:
phosphate stones
uric acid (urate) stones
cystine stones 
oxalate stones

Which type of stones can form in normal pH of urine?
oxalate stones 
phosphate stones
cystine stones 
uric acid (urate) stones

Indicate the method for diagnosing of ureteral stones:
CT scan
cystoscopy
laparoscopy
uroflowmetry

Indicate the X-ray diagnosis of kidney and urinary tract stones:
KUB and excretory urography
urokimography, ultrasound
pneumocystography, cystoscopy
urethrography, chromocystoscopy

What are the possible complications of urolithiasis?
pyelonephritis, hydronephrosis, pyonephrosis
pyelonephritis, renal failure, cystitis
hydronephrosis, pyonephrosis, orchiepididymitis
paranephritis, urethritis, cystitis, pyelonephritis

What are the possible complications of kidney stones?
calculous pyelonephritis, hydronephrosis, pyonephrosis
cystitis, hematuria
dysuria, pyuria, calculous pyelonephritis
acute urinary retention, pyelonephritis

What the conservative treatment of urolithiasis includes?
diet therapy, physiotherapy, antispasmodics, litholytics
ureteral catheterization
treatment with Trianol and Depostat
decrease fluid intake 

Indicate the treatment options of renal colic?
novocaine blockades, analgesia, ureteral catheterization, nephrostomy
bed regimen, pain relief, fasting
blockages, bandage, increase fluid intake, urine output control
bladder catheterization, analgesics, diet, rest, heating pad 

Management of renal colic includes:
antispasmodics, analgesics, stenting of the ureter
cold on the lower back
bladder catheterization
use of pilocarpine, proserine

Note the methods of open surgery to remove kidney stones.
pyelolithotomy, nephrolithotomy, nephropyelolithotomy
litholysis, ureterolithoextraction
removal of stones with endoscopic instruments
lithotripsy, percutaneous nephrolithotomy

The prophylaxis and metaphylaxis of urinary stones include following measures:
diet, prevention of inflammation, normalization of urine pH
reduced fluid intake
limiting salt intake
hormone therapy

Which part of the urinary tract obstruction causes acute urinary retention?
urethra
renal pelvis
bladder
intramural ureter

What complication occurs in the presence of pelvic stones?
hydronephrosis
polycystic kidney disease
megaureter
neurogenic dysplasia of the urinary tract

Clinical signs of urolithiasis include?
low back pain, hematuria, calcuria
low back pain, headache, leukocytosis
leukocytosis, fever, hematuria
macrohematuria, pyuria, diarrhea

What causes the pain in urolithiasis?
urodynamic disorder due to stone obstruction
inflammatory processes in the urinary tract
pain occurs in the presence of large kidney stones
presence of stones in the urinary tract

The main clinical sign of a stone in the lower third of the ureter:
dysuria
hematuria
proteinuria
hacteriuria

When the terminal hematuria can occur?
in case of bladder stones
in case of urethral stones
in case of ureteral stones
in case of ureteral stones

What are the main diagnostic procedures used for urolithiasis?
laboratory methods, urography, ultrasound, computed tomography
urography, computed tomography, laboratory methods
ultrasound, laboratory methods
MRI, computed tomography, laboratory methods

Which of the following symptoms is specific for urethral stones?
acute urinary retention
painful urination
hematuria
pyuria

What is the most characteristic symptom of urolithiasis?
pain
leukocyturia
increased body temperature
hematuria

What are the main types of lithotripsies?
contact and shock wave (distant) lithotripsy
pneumatic and ultrasonic lithotripsy
ultrasound and laser lithotripsy
laser and electrohydraulic lithotripsy

What test method can be used to determine the density of a stone?
computed tomography
chromocystoscopy
plain urography
renography

Indicate the main group of methods in diagnosing of urolithiasis?
X-ray methods
radioisotope methods
cystoscopy
laboratory methods

Identify the signs that correspond to oxalate stones.
hard, black in color, with a spiked surface
yellow-brown, smooth, firm consistency
black, soft, crumble easily
white, smooth, soft, various shapes

Choose the optimal method of treatment of oxalate kidney pelvis stone with dimensions of 20x25 mm without urodynamic disorders.
percutaneous nephrolithotripsy
distant shock wave lithotripsy
litholysis
pyelolithotomy

The main theories of stone formation are:
matrix theory, colloid theory, crystalloid theory
hyperparathyroidism, vitamin deficiency
hormonal, hereditary, infectious and allergic theory
colloidal, viral, hormonal theories

What are the stones that may develop in acidic urine?
uric acid (urate) stones 
phosphate stones
cystine stones 
oxalate stones

In Ivanissevich’s surgery:
testicular vein is ligated
vas deferens is ligated
proximal testicular anastomosis is formed
testicular artery is ligated

Name the method for diagnosing infravesical obstruction:
uroflowmetry
semen examination
US-dopplerography
blood gonadotropin test

Which method of examination of the arteries of the genital system is non-invasive?
US-dopplerography
dynamic cavernosography
cystomanometry
selective angiography

The testicles produce:
spermatozoa
seminal fluid
prostaglandines
renin

Indications for surgical treatment of varicocele are all except:
uncomplicated grade I varicocele
grade III varicocele + oligozoospermia
varicocele + severe pain symptom
grade II varicocele + oligozoospermia

Grade I varicocele manifests in the form of:
dilation of the testicular veins, which can only be palpated in Valsalva maneuver 
clearly visible dilated veins of the scrotum
reduction in the size of the testicle
testicular enlargement

How long after varicocele treatment is it necessary to re-examine the patient to exclude or confirm the enlargement of the veins of plexus?
after 1 month
after 1 week
in 5 years
in 10 years

Which vein does the left testicular vein flow into?
into the left renal vein
into the superior vena cava
into the iliac vein
into the great saphenous vein

Varicocele is:
pathological dilation of the pampiniform plexus veins
dilated veins of the kidney
pathological varicose veins of the lower extremities
pathological dilation of the veins of the upper extremities

What are the consequences of long-term venous blood stasis in varicocele?
increase in testicular temperature, testicular hypoxia
testicular torsion
inflammation
testicular abscess

What is the recommended period of physical exercise restriction after varicocele surgery?
4 weeks
1 day
7 days
2 weeks

What is the maximum diameter of the unchanged veins of the plexus pampiniform?
up to 2 mm
more than 2-4 mm
more than 2 mm
more than 3 mm

What is the "gold standard" in the diagnosis of varicocele?
doppler ultrasound 
MRI of the pelvic organs
CT scan of the retroperitoneal space
scintigraphy

What kind of operative access is used in Marmar surgery?
incision in the area of the external inguinal ring
incision in the right inner inguinal ring
incision in the left iliac region
incision in the right iliac region

What percentage of patients with varicocele suffer from a seriously impaired spermatogenesis?
30%
60%
70%
90%

Which vein is punctured in endovascular sclerotherapy of the left testicular vein?
right femoral vein
superior vena cava
portal vein
jugular vein

What surgery is performed to manage a postoperative hydrocele?
Winkelmann’s operation
Marmar‘s operation
Ivannesevich's operation
Billroth I

At what level is the parietal peritoneum opened in laparoscopic varicocele surgery?
at a distance of 3-4 cm from the deep inguinal ring
3-4 cm below the deep inguinal ring
in the right area
in the area of the inguinal canal

What is the most common complication of varicocele surgery?
hydrocele
obstructive pyelonephritis
ureteritis
testicular cyst formation

The main symptom of varicocele is:
feeling of heaviness in the scrotum
dull pain in the right iliac region
determination of the bundle of dilated veins in the bladder
determination of cystic mass in the scrotum

In what disease is the prostate gland enlarged, the contours are clear, symmetrical, the surface is smooth, tight-elastic, painless?
benign prostatic hyperplasia
prostate cancer
acute prostatitis
chronic prostatitis

What are the criteria for determining the severity of benign prostatic hyperplasia?
urinary disorders and the functional state of the kidneys
urinary disorders 
quantitative and qualitative changes in urine
urinary excretion disorders and qualitative changes in urine
 
The diagnosis of subcompensation stage in benign prostatic hyperplasia based on:
chronic urinary retention
acute urinary retention
chronic renal failure
nocturia
 
Urethroscopic sign of benign prostatic hyperplasia?
curtain symptom
Shevashu's sign
positive Zeldovich’s test
narrowed ureteral ostium
 
A sign of decompensation stage in benign prostatic hyperplasia is:
paradoxical ishuria
chronic urinary retention
acute urinary retention
nocturia

The sign of benign prostatic hyperplasia on an excretory urogram:
the fishing hooks symptom
the "wilted flower" symptom
butterfly symptom
curtain symptom

Radical treatment for benign prostatic hyperplasia?
laser enucleation
transurethral incision
prostate vaporization
urinary bladder resection
 
What medications are used to improve urination in benign prostatic hyperplasia?
α-adrenoblockers
antispasmodics
β-adrenoblockers
m-cholinomimetics
 
What are contraindications to conservative treatment in benign prostatic hyperplasia?
residual urine more than 300 ml, bladder stones and diverticula
history of acute urinary retention
chronic cystitis, residual urine 200 ml
residual urine more than 100 ml, chronic renal failure

From which zone of the prostate gland does benign prostatic hyperplasia develop?
from the transitional zone
from the anterior fibromuscular zone
from the peripheral zone
from the preprostatic zone

Indicate at what age do microscopic changes specific for BPH occur in the prostate gland?
after 40 years
after 30 years
after 25 years
after 60 years

What factors contribute to the occurrence of benign prostatic hyperplasia?
decreased testicular function (decreased androgen secretion)
ageing
blood type
tobacco and/or alcohol use

Give an example of drugs from the group of 5-alpha-reductase inhibitors? 
Finasterid, Dutasterid
Tamsulosin, Silodosin
Prostamol-uno, Tadenan
Proscar, Permixon

What is the optimal method of physical examination used to diagnose benign prostatic hyperplasia?
digital rectal examination, palpation of the prostate gland 
ultrasound transrectal sonography of the prostate gland
ultrasound sonography of the prostate and bladder
retrograde cystography

Determine a pathogenetically substantiated method of conservative treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia?
use of 5-alpha-reductase inhibitors
use of aromatase inhibitors
use of alpha-adrenergic receptor blockers
use of plant extracts

What is the absolute indication for the surgical treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia?
episodes of recurrent gross hematuria due to prostatic hyperplasia
high PSA level
presence of kidney stones
nocturia that does not allow the patient to sleep

What is the purpose of completing the IPSS (International Prostate Symptom Score) questionnaire?
objective assessment of the features of prostate disease symptoms
diagnosis and differential diagnosis of the causes of infravesical obstruction
differential diagnosis of benign prostatic hyperplasia and prostate cancer 
subjective assessment of the features of the symptoms of prostate diseases

What are the main causes of bladder filling defect in retrograde cystography?
X-ray negative stones, tumors, benign prostatic hyperplasia
intestinal foreign bodies
calcified lymph nodes
intrauterine device

What are the growing zones in benign prostatic hyperplasia?
transitional and periurethral zones of the prostate gland
central zone of the prostate gland
Cooper's glands
seminal vesicles

The most common cause of acute urinary retention in men is?
benign prostatic hyperplasia
prostate stones
chronic prostatitis
sclerosis of the urinary bladder neck

Compensation stage of benign prostatic hyperplasia is characterized by the following symptoms:
the bladder is completely emptied, there is no residual urine
residual urine volume 50-100 ml
urine dribbling
incomplete emptying of the bladder

What are the main symptoms of the compensation stage of benign prostatic hyperplasia?
pollakiuria and nocturia
incomplete emptying of the bladder
chronic urinary retention and stranguria
Imperative urinary incontinence

What disease is known as prostate adenoma?
benign prostatic hyperplasia
prostatic hypertrophy
enlargement of the prostate gland
chronic prostatitis

What factors determine the development of benign prostatic hyperplasia?
increased production of dihydrotestosterone
predominance of plant foods in the diet
decreased estrogen production
sexual dysrhythmia

What happens to the prostate tissue as the volume of prostatic adenoma increases?
shifts to the periphery, turns into a surgical capsule
remains unchanged
turns into adenomatous tissue
hypertrophied

Determine the rare form of growth of benign prostatic hyperplasia?
retrotrigonal
retrocecal
retroperitoneal
retrocaval

The dynamics of detrusor changes in benign prostatic hyperplasia include:
hypertrophy - gypotrophy - atrophy
gypotrophy - hypertrophy - atrophy
atrophy - hypertrophy - gypotrophy
detrusor does not change

Identify the factor that leads to acute urinary retention in benign prostatic hyperplasia?
stagnation of blood in the pelvic veins and swelling of the enlarged prostate gland
chronic prostatitis
the presence of bladder diverticula
detrusor hypertrophy

What changes in the upper urinary tract occur in benign prostatic hyperplasia?
bilateral ureterohydronephrosis
unilateral ureterohydronephrosis
vesicoureteral reflux
solitary kidney cyst

Which symptom is not specific for subcompensation stage in benign prostatic hyperplasia?
paradoxical ishuria
chronic urinary retention
acute urinary retention
nocturia

Determine the changes that occur in the lower third of the ureter in benign prostatic hyperplasia?
fishing hooks symptom 
narrowing of the intramural portion
closure of the intramural portion
"wilted flower" symptom

What medications can be used to reduce the size of the adenoma in the conservative treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia?
5-alpha-reductase inhibitors
alpha-blockers
plant extracts
aromatase inhibitors

What are the indications for single-stage adenomectomy in benign prostatic hyperplasia?
residual urine volume more than 150 ml, bleeding
residual urine less than 50 ml, pollakiuria, nocturia
prostate volume - 60 cm3 or less
hypertrophy of the bladder detrusor

Mark the medication from the group of alpha-adrenergic blockers:
Tamsulosin
Finasteride
Prostamol-Uno
Proscar

Which herbal preparation can be effective only in the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia at the compensation stage?
Prostamol-Uno
Tamsulosin
Finasteride
Dutasteride

Open surgery performed for the radical treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia is...
adenomectomy
cystostomy
transurethral incision
meatotomy

Which patients most often have such a complication as thromboembolism after adenomectomy surgery?
patients with varicose veins of the lower extremities
patients with bladder diverticulum
hypodynamic patients
patients with chronic prostatitis

What is the absolute contraindication to adenomectomy?
terminal stage of chronic kidney disease
latent stage of chronic renal failure
chronic prostatitis
bladder stones and diverticula

The indication for transurethral resection of the prostate is?
BPH up to 80 cm3
large adenoma (more than 80 cm3)
complicated adenoma
prostatic cancer

The most formidable complication of transurethral resection of the prostate gland is?
TUR-syndrome
acute prostatitis
acute pyelonephritis
hematuria

What is acute urinary retention called?
ishuria
pollakiuria
incontinence
nocturia

What is difficulty in urinating called?
stranguria
incontinence 
pollakiuria
nocturia

The need to get up once or more times at night in order to empty the bladder is:
nocturia
ishuria 
pollakiuria
enuresis

What is terminal dribbling?
urine dripping after urination
acute urinary retention 
frequent urination 
difficulty urinating

Which group of symptoms of lower urinary tract does urinary incontinence belong to?
irritative symptoms
obstructive symptoms
post-micturition symptoms
false symptoms

Which group of drugs are used to treat urinary incontinence in benign prostatic hyperplasia?
M-cholinergic blockers
α-adrenergic blockers
antispasmodics
β-adrenergic blockers

Which group of symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia does urine drip after urination belong to?
post-micturition symptoms
irritative symptoms
obstructive symptoms
false symptoms

What is the modern endourological method of prostate enucleation for benign prostatic hyperplasia?
holmium laser enucleation
transurethral resection
needle ablation
open adenomectomy

What endourological method of treating benign prostatic hyperplasia can be complicated by TUR-syndrome?
transurethral resection of the prostate
holmium laser enucleation
needle ablation
aquaablation

Note the optimal method of treatment for kidney contusion: 
conservative therapy
renal revision and drainage of the subcapsular hematoma
suturing of the renal parenchymal rupture
nephrectomy

What is a prerequisite for intraperitoneal rupture of the bladder?
full bladder
emptied bladder
fracture of the pelvic bones
injury to the lower abdomen

Which of the following signs is called Zeldovich's sign?
inadequate outflow of fluid during flushing of the bladder cavity
diffuse dullness of percussive sound in the suprapubic region
acute urinary retention
painful urge to urinate
	
Which of the following tests is the most valuable in diagnosing bladder ruptures?
cystography in direct and lateral projections
cystoscopy
ultrasonography
survey and excretory urography

In case of kidney trauma most commonly damaged:
front surface of the kidney
upper pole of the kidney
lower pole of the kidney
renal pelvis

The most informative of the proposed examination methods for kidney injury is:
excretory urography
abdominal aortography
ultrasound
chromocystoscopy

Conservative treatment for kidney injury includes:
hemostatic and antibiotic therapy
only antibiotic therapy
immunotherapy
surgical treatment

In case of intraperitoneal bladder injury, the following should be used:
laparotomy or laparoscopy and suturing of bladder rupture 
antibacterial agents
indwelling urethral catheter insertion
drainage of the pelvis through the obturator foramen
 
